{"Id":"1101162413930","Title":"Alderwood to probe voting machines","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"11/16/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Republicans in Alderwood joined Democrats yesterday in criticizing the performance of the city's costly new high-tech voting system, saying that it may have disenfranchised voters in the Nov. 4 election. The Republican commission scolded the city board of elections for minimizing problems with the touch-screen machines that the city purchased this year for 1.5 million and asked Mayor Rex Luthor to investigate what went wrong before the machines are pressed into service again. Alderwood's touch-screen voting machines, which resemble laptop computers without keyboards, were supposed to simplify voting and tabulating results. But in a debut that mirrored many of the problems experienced last year in areas across the country, some voters found the machines confusing, and the reporting of vote tallies was delayed almost a day. Luthor responded that he would try to address the board's concerns. He said he has called for a public meeting of the three-member board of elections to go over the requests at 5 p.m. today. \"I pledge that I will answer every question as soon as I possibly can in the proper fashion,\" he said."}
{"Id":"1101162433811","Title":"Forum","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"11/10/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"1-Column Councilman promises sound fiscal decisions As a member of the Alderwood City Council, I listened intently Monday night as many citizens stepped up to the podium and made it clear that they are against privatization. A few of those individuals made very poignant arguments, however, the fact of the matter is this, for every city that has had a bad experience with privatization, there is another that has had a good experience. Now, I am not saying that I am either for or against privatization. What I am saying is that the citizens of Alderwood elected me to be their watchdog, to make sure that I make sound fiscal decisions when it comes to using the city's money. In order to do this, I need to be able to look at all aspects of the city's budget. This includes possible privatization. Good citizens of Alderwood, I will promise you this, whether or not I vote in favor of privatization, I will never vote for less quality or poorer standards regardless of the cost. /s/ John Sarducci, City Councilman, Alderwood Untruths about teachers don t help fix schools I have had the privilege of getting to know John Panni over the past couple of years in the capacity as a tennis and basketball coach. He does a great job covering our local teams and I find him very likable on a personal level. I was, however, disappointed at some of the things he said in his personal column titled \"Election night headache\" (11-3-04). I also voted against I-884 because I don't think throwing more money at the education problem is the answer. I would like to see the education system use existing money more effectively. In that sense I agree with Mr. Panni. However, Mr. Panni's discussion of teachers wanting more pay is very off base. He notes that teachers \"work a six-hour day, only work 180 days out of each year, and get to work with children.\" One part of that statement is true, we do get to work with children. This can be a great joy, but it can also be a tremendous struggle to have 150 kids that you are responsible for on multiple levels. As a teacher, I take issue with Mr. Panni's comments regarding teacher work hours. The contract for teachers in Alderwood requires that we be at work from 7:30 a.m. to 3 p.m. daily. If my math is correct, that's seven and a half hours a day, not six. I don't know very many teachers who keep that schedule. Mr. Panni might want to look at the sign-in sheet at the high school, or others for that matter, so he can see the hours that teachers come in to do work for which they are not paid. As a teacher, a 50-hour work week is not uncommon. I have had many full time jobs in my life. Teaching is the most time consuming, mentally taxing and rewarding job of them all! When I got into this profession, money was not a deciding factor. I wanted to have time in the summer to spend with my family. What a dream that was! Not only is my summer taken up with preparing for the next school year, I am required by the state (at my expense) to increase my education. When do you think that is done? So why is there a teaching shortage in many parts of this country? The way Mr. Panni described it, you'd think everyone would want to teach. So, here is an open invitation. If being a teacher, advisor and mentor to 150 students daily on a 30,000 a year salary appeals to you, then this is a great job. Oh, you have to use your summers to continue your education on your dime (about 10,000 for me so far in my fourth year). I love my job and wouldn't trade it for any career. I chose it over law school because of my passion for it. It's just frustrating to read misconceptions like John Panni's, because teachers give their all to a system that has rules that they must live under. Fixing the system should be a priority, but promoting untruths about a teacher's job doesn't help. /s/ Troy Whittle, Alderwood High School social studies teacher Don t destroyour rec programs I was dismayed to hear that the city manager plans to eliminate the position of parks and recreation manager and divide the responsibilities of that job between the park supervisor and the secretary of the parks and recreation department. Do you believe these two individuals can handle their own duties, plus supervise the community center, museum, senior center, swimming pool, organize the children's soccer and baseball teams and organize the special craft and recreation programs for adults? As an example of one event, last year I volunteered to help with the summer track meet. There were 300 participants. This event was held on a Saturday. Would the parks and recreation secretary or park supervisor be able to organize and run all of these track events and also do their regular duties? The parks and recreation manager is responsible for the swimming pool programs, events at the senior center and the management of the sports leagues by assigning fields and organizing games. Will the department secretary and park supervisor be able to know what strokes should be taught in the different classifications of swimming classes? Besides their regular duties, will they be able to check on all the sports leagues and their field assignments and organize the league? Will they be present at the senior citizens casino night and participate as dealers? The citizens of Alderwood deserve a well organized recreational program that meets the needs of all ages. These activities provide outlets to many who would otherwise not have these advantages. When these programs decline, we will have more juvenile problems and associated negative behaviors. Please join me in opposing the decision of the city manager to destroy our progressive recreational program for all people in the city of Alderwood. /s/ Dorothy L. Aiken, Alderwood Steve Evanswill be missed The City of Alderwood will certainly miss Mr. Steve Evans, a long-time member of the police force. My family and I had the pleasure of meeting Steve when he came to St. Joseph's Hospital here in Tacoma to witness the birth of his first grandchild, Coven M. Evans Olivas. During his visit he spoke often of \"his town\" with great pride. He exhibited to the community he loved the same caring that he showed his oldest daughter during the difficult birth. His strength, kindness and love helped us all, and we join the City of Alderwood in their fond farewell. We will all miss him very much. /s/ Rosalinda and Ron Olivas, Tacoma Gubernatorial candidate offers thanks to voters Although the governor's race isn't yet decided, I want to take this opportunity to thank the readers of the Alderwood Daily News for their involvement in the democratic process, whether or not they voted for me. It was a long campaign, and I truly enjoyed getting to know the people of Washington. I also want to express my good wishes to Christine Gregoire and her family. No matter what the outcome of this race, I feel blessed to have had this wonderful experience. If I do win, I'll start putting in place my Forward Washington agenda to get our economy going again and help get people back to work. If I don't, I'll consider it one of the greatest honors of my life to have had the opportunity to run for our state's highest office. /s/ Dino Rossi Blood drawing very successful Sponsored by the Nouvella Club with Rita Blunk as chairperson, we had a very successful blood drawing on Nov. 2. The quota was 70 units. We had 87 presenters and three first-time donors. Ten were unable to give, leaving 77 units collected. Because of their efforts, 231 people will have another chance at life. Many thanks to the sponsors for donating the cookies and juice, the United Methodist Church for the use of its hall, Bob Story for the great publicity in the Alderwood Daily News and Max of Washington Corrugators for displaying the banner at Centennial Square. I would like to thank the following volunteers: Ella Mae Lochner, Myrtis Lang, Alice Benedetti, Phyllis Morris, Trude Meadowcroft, Letha Grubb, Lu Ann Roach, Nita Coleman, Lila Furukawa and Ruth Stark. A very special thank you to the donors, who are the lifeline for the flow of blood in the Valley. We hope to see you at the next blood drawing on Jan. 4, at the United Methodist Church in Alderwood from 1 to 6 p.m. /s/ Marie Handy, Alderwood"}
{"Id":"1101162452170","Title":"New heroes, vets honored by students","Author":"Jamie Smart","Time":"11/10/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"GRANGER - Toughened by memories of violence, military veterans living in the Granger community were visibly moved by the sound of more than 300 youngsters reciting the \"Pledge of Allegiance\" during a school assembly held yesterday (Tuesday) at Roosevelt Elementary School. \"I don't think there is anything sweeter than the sound of children saying the \"Pledge\" or singing patriotic songs,\" said Bill Russell, a Vietnam war veteran and long-time Granger resident. Russell, along with fellow VFW members Lyle Bergstrom and Dave Rodriguez, was on hand for the school's Veteran's Day ceremony. The men, who served as a color guard for the children's assembly, were later presented with certificates of appreciation from the students. The children also presented tokens of their respect and appreciation to a number of other Granger residents who served their nation in past wars. But the veterans weren't the only heroes honored during the assembly. A group of Granger High School girls were also singled out for their selfless deeds. \"The girls voluntarily cut their hair in order to provide human hair wigs for cancer patients suffering hair loss,\" said Janet Wheaton, Roosevelt Elementary School principal. Wheaton introduced the young women, who each allowed more than 10 inches of their hair to be sacrificed for the Florida-based charity. The girls, all members of the Granger High School Young Authors Club, decided to cut their hair at the suggestion of Emma Rice, whose grandmother died of cancer. \"We celebrate these girls and our veterans for all of their humanitarian acts,\" Wheaton said"}
{"Id":"1101162452451","Title":"Obituaries","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"11/10/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"ESTHER M ESTHER M. BOWEN Esther Martha Bowen, 107, of Seattle died Monday, Nov. 8, 2004. She was born April 6, 1897 in Louisville, Ky. She lived in Alderwood from 1917 to 1945. She married Dr. John H. Schutz, who died in 1966. In 1970, she married Maurice Bowen of Alderwood. She is survived by her daughter, Phyllis Warmington of Seattle; son-in-law, Dr. William Warmington; and two granddaughters, Flynn Warmington of Somerville, Maine, and Joan Warmington of Kirkland; and many nieces and nephews. She was preceded in death by her husbands, Dr. John H. Schutz, and Maurice Bowen, in 1978; and her seven siblings. No services are planned. In memory of Mrs. Bowen memorials may be made to the American Red Cross. Evergreen Washelli is in charge of arrangements, Seattle. JESUS Martinez Jesus Martinez, 18, of Mabton died Saturday, Nov. 6, 2004, due to injuries sustained in an automobile accident. He was born Sept. 11, 1986 in Los Angeles, Calif., the son of Celia (Lujan) and Jose Ignacio Garica. He attended grade school in Mabton and was currently a senior at Mabton High School. He is survived by his parents, Celia and Jose Ignacio Martinez of Mabton; three sisters, Veronica Torres and husband, Lucio, and Patricia Martinez, all of Mabton, and Juana Moreno and husband, Miguel; three brothers, Jose Ignacio Martinez and Jose Luis Martinez, both of Mabton, and Jorge Martinez of Prosser; and grandmother, Raquel Martinez of Mexico. He was preceded in death by his grandfathers, Luis Martinez and Jose Lujan. Visitation will be held Thursday, Nov. 11, 2004, from 3 to 8 p.m. with recitation of the Holy Rosary to be held at 6 p.m. at Wells Funeral Home, Alderwood. Mass of Christian Burial will be held Friday, Nov. 12, 2004, at 1 p.m. at Blessed Sacrament Catholic Church, Grandview. Burial will be held at Mabton Cemetery, under the direction of Wells Funeral Home, Alderwood. GERONIMO H. PINA Geronimo H. Pi a Sr., 70, of Grandview passed away Sunday, Nov. 7, 2004, at Yakima Regional Hospital in Yakima He was born May 6, 1934 in Weslaco, Texas to Manuel and Juanita Pi a. On July 13, 1952 he married Concepcion Mendez in Mercedes, Texas, making their home in Weslaco. In 1956, they moved to Grandview and later to Prosser, where he worked as a foreman for A and B Hops Inc. for 47 years until retiring. He is survived by his devoted wife of 52 years, Concepcion Pi a; eight sons, Juan and Felipa Pi a, Geronimo Pi a Jr., Oscar and Sylvia Pi a, Humberto and Felicia Pi a, Samuel and Elissa Pi a, Josue and Joella Pi a, Noel and Sherry Pi a, and Juan Jr. and Violeta Pi a; one daughter, San Juanita Pi a; 22 grandchildren; and 16 great-grandchildren; two sisters, Ciria Tijerina and Dominga Garza; and two brothers, Gregorio Pi a and Livorio Pi a, all of Weslaco. Geronimo enjoyed baseball (Seattle Mariners) and football (The Dallas Cowboys), fishing, playing pool and spending time with family and friends. He also coached his sons in baseball, and had a baseball team called The Prosser Astros and loved watching them participate in all sports. He was preceded in death by his parents; two brothers, Manuel Pi a Jr. and Claudio Pi a; one sister, Margarita Barron; and one son, Joel Pi a. Viewing and visitation will be held Thursday, Nov. 11, 2004, from 11 a.m. until 8 p.m. at Wells Funeral Home, Grandview. Graveside funeral services will be held Friday, Nov. 12, 2004, at 8:30 a.m. at East Prosser Cemetery, under the direction of Wells Funeral Home, Grandview"}
{"Id":"1101162452686","Title":"Alderwood pharmacist earns Doctorate degree","Author":"Jamie Smart","Time":"11/9/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Working full time and studying for the past four years has resulted in Thuha \"Bac\" Nguyen earning the right to add doctor to his name. But the title doesn't mean he will be seeing patients as a physician, he explains. \"I do, however, have a very extensive knowledge of drug therapy and will be of service to doctors and their patients in helping to monitor their medications,\" he explained. Nguyen, who has worked in the Alderwood Community Hospital pharmacy since 1996, recently earned his Doctorate of pharmacy from Idaho State University. He completed the two-year doctorate program over the course of four years, working as a part-time student while maintaining his job working with fellow hospital pharmacist Arie Van Wingerden of Alderwood. Nguyen, who came to America in 1987 from Vietnam, earned his pharmacy degree from St. John's University in New York State, before moving to the West Coast. Nguyen said since coming to America he has worked to be of value in society. \"It is the most important thing to me,\" he said. \"I took the opportunity to pursue an education so I could be of value to others,\" he said. In order to earn his doctorate, Nguyen had to take training, known as clerkships, outside of the classroom in six-week intervals. As a doctor of pharmacy, he doesn't actually prescribe medications to patients, but serves as a resource for physicians and hospital staff. With the additional training, Nguyen said he is now more qualified to aid physicians with drug therapy and drug monitoring. He said living in the Lower Valley suits his lifestyle. A Grandview resident, Nguyen said he worked in Seattle for about six months at a Payless pharmacy. \"I didn't like living in the city,\" he said. \"I wanted to work in a hospital in a rural setting. This area and the hospital setting suits me,\" he added"}
{"Id":"1101162452967","Title":"Clown classes begin in Alderwood","Author":"Mel Sacher","Time":"11/9/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Part of the next generation of clowns attended the first of several classes last night to learn the basics and secrets of how to become a clown. Monday night at the Alderwood Beauty Academy, Arlo Waggoner, who is also known to many as Waldo the Clown, started the class by showing the students a video by the Ringling Brother's Barnum and Bailey Clown College. The video covered the basics of what the students will be learning over the next several weeks as they delve into the clowning world. A form of entertainment that has been around for more than a thousand years, clowns were once known as court jesters. Waggoner said the first step is to learn how to move like a clown. While most people walk and move smoothly, clowns exaggerate their movements, which is important so that people know exactly how they are feeling. Although they will have time to practice later, the students also learned the basics of juggling, which includes starting out with something like a light handkerchief, which will fall slowly. Waggoner said as that becomes easier, begin trying with soft bean bags, which won't roll away if dropped. \"The bottom line is practice,\" said Waggoner. Last night's video also showed the basics of balloon art, clown gags and skits and designing costumes. The students also learned there are three different kinds of clown make-up faces, the white faced clowns, which are the more reserved clowns. Auguste clowns, which have both white and flesh tones, are the roust-abouts and trouble makers, said Waggoner. The third type of clown is the tramp or character clown. Clothes are determined by what kind of clown a person chooses to be. Waggoner said that if his students choose to be a tramp or character clown he wants them to dress nicely instead of in old rags. The key to developing a face and costume is to exaggerate already existing physical characteristics, such as height, length of face and girth. When developing a clown face, the basic circus colors used are red, black, white and blue. Clowns use color on their lower lip only and smiles are generally smaller, not the big scary smiles often created by inexperienced clowns, said Waggoner. Using baby powder, clowns set their make-up so it doesn't run. \"We use plain old baby powder as long as it doesn't have cornstarch in it,\" said Waggoner, adding that they brush off excess powder with a brush. \"After I get my make-up on I can go swimming and it won't come off,\" said Waggoner. The next class will be held Monday, Nov. 15, at the Alderwood Beauty Academy. They will be going over make-up at the next class. Waggoner said it's not too late to sign up for the free classes. The class is open to all ages"}
{"Id":"1101162453186","Title":"Hefty increase in Alderwood property tax rate OK'd","Author":"John Panni","Time":"11/9/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Years of not raising property taxes has finally caught up with the City of Alderwood. In a 4-3 vote during Monday night's meeting, City Council members approved raising the 2005 property tax by 42 per thousand of assessed property value from the current rate. The new property tax for Alderwood residents will be 3.1334 per 1,000 of assessed property value, up from the 2004 rate of 2.71 per 1,000 of assessed property value. The approved property tax increase will raise an additional 195,556 for city coffers. The city will raise an additional 625,970 in General Obligation Bonds. The payments on the bonds are being made from when the city refinanced together the Law and Justice Center and the pool measures voters approved. Council was split on the matter, with Mayor Pro-tem George Greenway and Councilmen Tom Seeger and John Torch wanting to scale back the property tax increase to 3 per 1,000 of assessed property value. Mayor Rex Luthor, Councilwoman Jennie Angel and Councilmen Jim Sarducci and Raul Martinez took the collective stance that the city needs to do something to raise money to prevent further reductions in city services. But not everyone agreed with the thoughts of Council Monday night. Alderwood resident Bob Johnson said he felt Council should stick to past practices of not raising taxes. Johnson said that with the cost of living and water and sewer rates continually increasing, now is not the time to burden residents with an extra tax. Johnson told Council it will probably be seeing a lot of vacant homes in Alderwood if property taxes are raised. Carol Stone expressed concerns that Council was raising property taxes to pay for the 2.2 million purchase of Monson feedlot. Stone also said she didn't want to see property taxes raised because she felt it might encourage the city to spend additional money for items not needed. Bruce Epps scolded Council for what he perceived as a mismanagement of the city's budget. Epps said because Council hadn't raised property taxes in a number of years that it backed itself into a corner, where it had no choice but to do so Monday night. \"You have mismanaged the budget. You have overspent,\" said Epps. \"If you had done your jobs along the way, you probably wouldn't be at this point.\" Angel sided with some of the concerns expressed by residents, but felt the city had no choice but to raise property taxes. Angel said that when the city is dealing with a budget the size Alderwood has, Council has to make some tough decisions. \"We are at the point where we have to do something,\" said Angel. Luthor agreed with Angel, saying that if Council didn't approve the property tax increase the city would be faced with having to make more cuts to balance the 2005 budget. The mayor also explained the city receives minimal dollars from the property tax, with the county receiving a majority of the money. Torch said he wasn't in favor of property tax increases, but said there is a need to raise rates. Torch, though, said he would like to see the Council go back to 1998 rates of 3 per 1,000 of assessed property value for the property tax. Torch said he felt the city could \"hold the line\" and manage best what it has with his proposed rate. Martinez said he was approached by residents over the weekend who were concerned with the personnel cuts proposed for 2005. But, Martinez said he saw the need to raise property taxes to help pay for needed city services. \"We do have to provide the basic services to our community,\" said Martinez. Farmer agreed with Torch about his thoughts on taxes, saying he would also like to see the 3 rate. The mayor pro-tem said he felt the city has to do something to raise money to prevent further service cuts. He said Alderwood residents have been lucky for the past several years with seeing no property tax increases, while other communities haven't been as fortunate. He said the city has also taken money out of reserves to pay for mistakes that have been made by the county so as not to burden the local taxpayers. Farmer said he believes the city could be creative with how it uses city funds after receiving the money from the 3/10 of 1 percent sales tax county voters recently approved for law and justice services to address some budget matters. Seeger was quick to point out that the Monson feedlot purchase has nothing to do with the budget. Seeger said the money spent for the purchase of the Monson feedlot will be replenished as soon as the property is sold. Seeger was also in favor of raising property taxes to the 3 rate. He said he feels the city has been doing fine with providing services, citing what the fire department has been doing without having two staff members available"}
{"Id":"1101162453420","Title":"Ramirez brothers return from Iraq","Author":"Mel Sacher","Time":"11/8/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"GRANDVIEW - The home of Eva Martinez was festive this past Saturday night as she welcomed her sons home from Iraq. A tearful homecoming with family began about 4 p.m. when her sons arrived at her Grandview home. It had been a year since Martinez saw her oldest son, Sgt. Ismael Ramirez, 25, and six months since Specialist Job Ramirez, 24, had visited home, according to the brothers' sister, Socorro Ramirez. The brothers signed up for the Army two weeks apart. \"I kind of always wanted to be in the Army,\" said Job Ramirez, who was first to enlist. \"I was going to Eastern and after I stopped going to school I came home.\" A short time later he decided to sign up for a military tour. Scheduled to be released this coming spring, he recently re-enlisted. Ismael was attending law school at Willamette University when he decided to enlist in the Army. \"I realized I didn't want to be a lawyer,\" said the Washington State University graduate. \"You play with GI Joe's when you're little and you want to be in the Army,\" said Ismael. I also needed a way to pay off student loans.\" Both men are stationed out of Ft. June and recently returned from Iraq. Job has been in the states about a week and Ismael about four days. The Ramirez brothers each received a four-day weekend and decided to visit their mother and other family in the Lower Valley. They will be taking block leave in December, which will give them a month off. The two brothers are in the same Striker Brigade combination team, the 3rd Brigade of the Second Infantry Division. Both work in supply and were actually at the same camp in Iraq for a while before Ismael was promoted and moved about 50 kilometers away. \"Iraq is colder and rainier than everybody thinks it is,\" said Ismael, who added that they had two days of snow before he left Iraq. Stationed in the city of Mosul, which is a huge sprawling city, he said that although they are trained to work in supply, they, like other military personnel, had duties that aren't typical of supply officers. They often go on convoys into the city. \"All the cooks are guarding gates,\" said Ismael. Being in Mosul for a year, Ismael has seen differences made in the services to the military personnel, as well as the citizens of the city. He said the first three months they were there it was difficult without some of the amenities now offered, such as Internet cafes. Ismael has also seen improvements in city sanitation and sewage treatment because of work done by the U.S. military. He added that schools are also up and running again. Job believes the most important thing he's done since arriving in Iraq is what directly influences his unit. Returning home, the brothers came to the Valley to be surrounded by family and friends, whom they haven't seen in a while. Ismael came back to the states to his wife, whom he lives with in Renton. \"Once we're back it's like a regular day job,\" said Ismael. \"This is like a family reunion,\" said Socorro Ramirez. \"We were last together a year ago last July when my brother (Ismael) got married.\" One of her biggest fears is that now that her brother, Job, has re-enlisted, he will be required to go back to Iraq, although he believes he will have some time home before returning there"}
{"Id":"1101162453655","Title":"Alderwood's Promise in need of reading volunteers","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"11/8/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Alderwood's Promise \"Promise to Read\" program is in need of volunteers to spend about 30 minutes a week reading with children in the local community. To volunteer for the program, pick up a volunteer application at the Office of Teaching and Learning at 800 E. Custer Ave. or call 836-8401. Alderwood's Promise is also in search of volunteers to serve as reading mentors for students in the Class of 2012, which are currently fifth graders. Volunteers will wok with students on their reading skills by listening to them and helping them read. Those who volunteer will receive training and will be placed in the school district. Mentors can volunteer their time daily, once a week or once a month, whichever fits their schedule. For more information about volunteering as a reading mentor contact Alderwood's Promise at 836-8417 or 836-8401"}
{"Id":"1101162453889","Title":"Grape society trade show this week","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"11/8/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"GRANDVIEW - The two-day Washington State Grape Society trade show will be held this Thursday and Friday, Nov. 11-12, at the Grandview Church of the Nazarene, 500 N. Elm St., Grandview. Dr. Robert Wample, director of viticulture and enology at California State University, Fresno, Calif., will be speaking on what's happening in the wine and grape industries at 1:15 p.m., Thursday. Other speakers from Washington State University and the extension service will be discussing the current and future grape market trends, new cost studies on wine grapes and they will be taking comments on new mechanical pruning methods. Friday there will be speakers discussing improving biological pest controls, pesticide updates, and organic grape production. Controlling bunch rod and nematodes will also be discussed. For more information about the annual meeting and trade show contact Deb Heintz, (509) 786-7888"}
{"Id":"1101162454123","Title":"Mabton grid team in 'B' State playoffs","Author":"Bob Story","Time":"11/8/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"ENTIAT - Last Friday's dominating 35-7 victory over Entiat earned the Mabton High School football team a berth in this year's 'B' State playoffs. Mabton, which lost its first two league games of the season but bounced back to win six straight in conference play, will open the postseason against the Lind-Ritzville Broncos. The Vikings' first round State playoff opponent won the Northeast 'B' League with a perfect 9-0 record. Mabton (6-2, 7-3) enters the State playoffs as the No. 3 seed out of the Central Washington 'B' League. Mabton Coach D.J. Search said the site and date of his team's first round playoff game against Ritzville is not yet decided. He and the Ritzville coach have already swapped game films. Search said he is optimistic his club can give the Broncos a stiff challenge. \"They're not a bad team,\" Search said of the unbeaten Broncos. \"Speed wise, I think we match up pretty well with them. But I think we're going to be more physical than them.\" In knocking off Entiat last Friday, Mabton showed it is a team that is ready for the postseason. The Vikings not only ran the ball effectively, they also weren't afraid to put it up in the air. Mabton QB Ryan Harris completed 11-of-21 passes against Entiat, serving up only one interception while throwing for 174 yards. \"Those aren't bad numbers for high school football,\" said Search. \"Ryan is making good decisions on the field. He's progressively gotten better as the season has gone along,\" Search said. Harris' targets last Friday included Moises Gutierrez, who hauled in five passes for 77 yards. Gutierrez and Pablo Sanchez, who caught two passes for 32 yards and also rushed for 60 yards on 13 carries, each caught a touchdown pass from Harris. On the ground, Mabton tallied 309 yards against Entiat. Junior Ray Elizondo was the workhorse for the Vikes, taking 20 hand-offs from Harris and picking up a season best 167 yards. \"It was Ray's biggest game of the season,\" said Search, explaining that Entiat didn't adjust to Mabton's dives up the middle. \"So we just kept feeding the ball to Ray,\" he said. The reason Elizondo had so much room in the middle to run, said Search, was because of the play of the Vikes' offensive line. \"Our O-line did a great job of taking care of business,\" Search said. \"They played very hard.\" Mabton opened the scoring last Friday on a 5-yard TD pass from Harris to Sanchez in the first quarter. The Vikings increased their lead to 14-0 in the second period, on a 16-yard touchdown run by Alex Zavala, who carried the ball 11 times Friday night, tallying 59 yards in the process. After Entiat picked off a Harris pass, at Mabton's 22-yard line, the home team notched its only score of the night to draw to within 14-7. Mabton ended any suspense that might have been left, though, when the Vikings punched in a couple of TD's in the third quarter. Zavala and Sanchez scored on runs of 4 and 2 yards, respectively. Gutierrez's five-yard touchdown catch in the final quarter accounted for the final 35-7 score. Defensively, Search said his Vikes turned in another splendid performance. \"Other than Entiat's opening drive, when they got to our 4-yard line, and the one drive after they intercepted our quarterback, they never really challenged us again,\" said Search"}
{"Id":"1101162454389","Title":"Pioneers end G'view's season","Author":"Bob Story","Time":"11/8/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"OMAK - Omak's power-I offense proved to be too much to overcome for the Grandview High School football team last Friday night. The Pioneers claimed a 28-12 opening round District win over Grandview to earn the right to move on to the State playoffs. The Greyhounds (3-3, 3-6) saw their season come to a close. Grandview was poised several times to take the early lead on the Pioneers' home field, but three first quarter stops by Omak after the 'Hounds had driven the ball deep into Pioneer territory thwarted any such hopes. First year Grandview Coach Dustin Lamb said his club had three red zone scoring opportunities in the opening period. \"But on two of them we had dropped passes in crucial situations, and with the other we had a penalty that backed us up.\" Omak also snuffed a couple of other Grandview drives in the first half when the Pioneers came up with a pair of interceptions. The 'Hounds were forced into playing catch-up football after Omak posted three touchdowns in the second quarter. Two of the TD's came on passes, from Pioneer QB Cody Campbell to Brenden Kaermingk. \"They had us down 21-0 at the half,\" said Lamb. Neither club could muster much of anything in the third quarter. But in the final period of play, Grandview made a run at the Pioneers. The Greyhounds finally got on the scoreboard when their quarterback, Brandon Artz, hit running back Silas Hansen with a 24-yard scoring strike. Artz followed up the TD with another touchdown toss to James Vela, the second one a 22-yarder. The Artz to Vela hook-up cut Omak's lead to 21-12. The Pioneers didn't allow Grandview to get any closer, though. Omak put an insurance touchdown on the scoreboard to account for the final 28-12 score. The Greyhounds put up some decent numbers on offense, despite being limited to two touchdowns on the night. Rushing-wise, Grandview tallied 88 yards. Hansen got most of the yardage, gaining 63 yards on 17 carries. Frank Medina toted the ball six times and picked up 17 yards for Grandview, with James Vela totaling eight yards on three carries. Through the air, Artz was 19-for-35 for 176 yards. Vela grabbed 10 of Artz's passes and picked up 93 yards on the receptions. Hansen had three catches for 54 yards, with Kevin Concienne gaining 25 yards on four receptions and Medina hauling in two passes for four yards. The Pioneers tallied just over 350 total yards on the offensive side of the ball. In assessing his first year as coach of the 'Hounds, Lamb said he is pleased with how Grandview fared this season. \"We were in every game, with the exception of the East Valley and Othello contests,\" Lamb said. \"For our seniors, it was their second straight appearance in the District playoffs. \"I compliment our seniors for a good season, especially with having to learn new stuff this year. \"And, we played a lot of younger kids this season. By no means is our cubboard bare,\" he added"}
{"Id":"1101162468686","Title":"Jr. Indelook Club to hear about life in Argentina","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"11/5/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Members of the Jr. Indelook Club will have a chance to hear about life in Argentina when they get together for their next meeting, set to take place Wednesday, Nov. 10, at the home of Marjorie Cullen. Mary Cocciaro, an exchange student from Argentina, will serve as the guest speaker during the event, which will be co-hosted by Phyllis Bruhn. The program chair for the meeting is Pat Barr. This month, members will also begin to prepare for the holiday season. Club members are asked to bring a copy of their favorite holiday recipe to share with the group during roll call"}
{"Id":"1101162468967","Title":"High school brings modern touch to Romeo and Juliet","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"11/5/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"When the audience sits down to enjoy the Alderwood High School performance of Romeo and Juliet, they should be prepared to see some modern-day touches. This year when the local drama students take to the stage they may be speaking Shakespearean language, but there will be no denying that the play is set in modern times. For the past two and a half months the more than 30 cast members have been working diligently, learning their lines and preparing to bring Romeo and Juliet to the stage. Drama teacher Maisy Sylling noted that she tries to incorporate a Shakespearean play into the high school's repertoire at least once every four or five years in order to challenge her students to learn the language. As for why she chose to do Romeo and Juliet this year, Sylling said that she feels it's a timeless story and one with which students can relate. However, she did decide to modernize the play a bit, replacing knives and swords with guns and holsters and 16th century garb with modern-day costumes. \"It's more powerful if it's set in present day,\" Sylling said, noting that it makes it easier for students to relate to. Sylling said those sitting in the audience will have a chance to see a show that will make them think about the challenges young people face, especially if they are in love. \"I think they will be wrapped up in the story and impressed by the talent of the high school students,\" she said. The cast of Romeo and Juliet is made up of about 30 students, with another 25 students working behind the scenes. Sylling said this season's play helped attract a lot of new students to the drama program. She noted that for Tony Magana, who will be playing Romeo, this marks the first time he has been on stage. In the past he has worked as a member of the crew. The role of Juliet will be played by Angela Marin. The play is set to take to the stage at 7 p.m. on Friday and Saturday, Nov. 12 and 13, and Saturday, Nov. 20. The cost of admission is 3 for students and senior citizens, and 5 for adults"}
{"Id":"1101162469201","Title":"Festival of Trees kicks off the holidays","Author":"Jamie Smart","Time":"11/5/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"What has long been viewed as a gala to kick off the Alderwood holiday season, the Alderwood Community Hospital Auxiliary's ninth annual Festival of Trees will be held Friday, Nov. 19. The organizers of this year's event are again planning to offer Alderwoodrs an opportunity to break out their holiday party clothes and enjoy an evening viewing beautifully decorated Christmas-themed trees designed especially for the occasion. Held at the Alderwood Mini Mall, this year's event begins at 6:30 p.m. The three-hour social allows party-goers to support medical scholarships, while gathering festive holiday decorating ideas. This year, 15 ornate festooned trees will fill the Mini Mall hallways, while party-goers socialize and enjoy hor'd oeuvres and wine. The cost for the evening is 15 per person and tickets are available at the door, according to Charlene Maling, president of the hospital auxiliary. She said proceeds from the event, which will include a holiday raffle, will benefit the auxiliary's medical scholarship program and hospital's equipment fund. \"This year we are inviting local Red Hat Society members to include us in their schedule of holiday activities,\" said Maling. The trees will be on display for several days at the Mini Mall before being removed for display at area businesses and homes during the holiday season. \"We invite everyone to join us in the unveiling of this year's Festival of Trees,\" said Maling. For more information about the event, call Maling at 837-1620 or co-president Yolle Widdows-Guizar at 837-1601"}
{"Id":"1101162469467","Title":"Working Stiff","Author":"Mel Sacher","Time":"11/5/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"For more than 20 years Linda Roberson has been providing electrolysis services to Lower Valley residents seeking permanent hair removal. Most of her career, Roberson has practiced out of a beauty shop on Seventh Street in Alderwood, but about four years ago when New Image moved to Edison Avenue, so did Roberson. Roberson and her sister, who lives in Yakima, are both certified electrologists. \"In our family we have people who have a lot of hair and you can't work on yourself, so when the opportunity came up we both took the classes,\" said the Mabton resident. \"It's a rewarding field,\" said Roberson, who finds a lot of satisfaction in helping women who are uncomfortable with facial hair or other problem areas. \"There are three times in life when women grow hair, puberty, pregnancy and menopause,\" she said. But Roberson's services are not only sought by women. Men wanting their hands or backs hairless also visit her, as do high school aged boys and girls and college students home on vacation. \"As of today, electrolysis is the only method of permanent hair removal that is recognized by the Food and Drug Administration,\" said Roberson. She said plucking, tweezing, creams, waxes and other methods of hair removal don't kill the follicle and instead draw more blood to the area where hair is removed, causing it to grow back thicker and darker. Although some people think that electrolysis is similar to a medical procedure, Roberson is quick to let all know that they are not medical persons, but she added it is not the \"back door business\" people used to think it was. \"We are not medical people ourselves, but we have a lot of medical people talk to us,\" said Roberson. She recently returned from an electrolysis conference in Las Vegas, where she heard from medical professionals on different things to look for on client's skin and was updated on new technologies. Roberson said she often sees or notices changes in moles that a client may not know about. Without diagnosing a skin problem, she may suggest that a client see their doctor about the condition. On a few occasions Roberson's suggestion to go to the doctor has proven to benefit her clients, who were found to have cancerous spots on their faces. Electrolysis by Linda is a second job for Roberson, who does quality control for Stadelman Fruit Company in Zillah. Her Alderwood office hours are in the late afternoon and evening by appointment. \"I give a free consultation to anyone interested,\" said Roberson. \"This is not like getting a shot,\" she tells her clients. \"I go along the hair follicle and use a high frequency heat machine to cook the hair from the inside out.\" Roberson said her clients keep her interested in continuing electrolysis. \"When I see my clients on the street walking with their head high, it makes me feel good,\" said Roberson"}
{"Id":"1101162469717","Title":"Enjoy a laugh at work, its good for you","Author":"Mel Sacher","Time":"11/5/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Dorothy Bristow is the first to admit she keeps toys in her office. Bristow, who was the featured speaker at the Alderwood Kiwanis Club meeting Thursday morning, said those who walk into her office will see a shelf of toys, which is what she uses to combat stress and enjoy life, even while at work. A student of laughter and the art of mixing work and play, Bristow said that the Puritans and Protestants brought the idea that work is exhalted and laughter and fun is sinful. \"A lot of people have the belief that if they are laughing they are not working,\" she said. Over the past 10 or 15 years studies have shown that work environments that promote laughter and promote play can be effected on the bottom line, said Bristow. She said that laughter and play raise morale and promote better customer service. Business guru Robert Dolson said that if laughter and humor are accepted in the work environment employees will be rewarded for what they do and picked up after failure, Bristow said. She added that she believes there is a reason why the Chinese pictograph for the word busy is a combination of the two words heart and killing. Bristow said that no one remembers their first laugh, which come when babies are about 10 weeks of age. By 16 weeks of age, babies laugh once an hour, even though they don't have a sense of humor, which is cultural, intellectual and learned. By the time a child is four or five years old they laugh or have positive facial reactions 400 to 500 times a day, said Bristow, who holds a Master's degree in counseling. \"A child knows it's good to laugh,\" she said. In a study of adults in work and non-work situations, adults laugh or smile 15 to 100 times a day. The majority of adults fall in the lower end, she added. \"They found that adults truly do not laugh or have positive facial reactions as often as children,\" she said. \"Your body loves it when you laugh or smile. Even the act of smiling can have a positive impact on the body.\" Bristow explained that there are other benefits to laughing including the release of natural chemicals in the body, which can reduce stress and act as a natural painkiller. She added that if someone wants to learn something they should laugh when they are trying to take in the information. Laughter is also a good way to exercise the lungs and promote creativity. \"As adults why don't we laugh more?\" Bristow asked. \"We're told 'life is not a laughing matter', 'this is serious', 'this is a dog eat dog world',\" she said. \"Laughter is the greatest connection between two people,\" she said. People who can laugh easily and laugh well show confidence and self-esteem. \"Usually if they laugh together the relationship is good,\" said Bristow. Besides laughter, Bristow suggests reframing things and looking at them from a different perspective, which can promote laughter. She said a person in special education once told her, \"I never thought I was a slow learner, I just thought teaching came very hard to my instructors.\" Even with the tips to keep laughter alive, Bristow said that one of the best ways she has to promote laughter in herself is to keep her toys in her office. She said she has a magic wand, bubble gun, books and a ball that when thrown on the ground sounds like smashing glass, which she uses when she's really upset"}
{"Id":"1101162469951","Title":"Mayor pro-tem suggests regaining control of library","Author":"John Panni","Time":"11/5/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"During Thursday night's joint meeting of the Alderwood School Board and the Alderwood City Council, Mayor Pro-tem George Greenway offered a suggestion concerning the local library. Greenway wants to enter into discussions with the school district to find a way to take back operation of the Alderwood Public Library from the Yakima Valley Regional Library System. \"We should look at some kind of joint venture between the city and the school district,\" said Greenway. The Alderwood City Council opted during budget discussions last year to put before local voters the issue of whether or not to support an additional 50 per thousand assessed property value tax to keep the library open under the operation of the Yakima Valley Regional Library. Voters approved that tax earlier this year. Council members then relinquished control of the library to the county-wide system. The regional library system is set to take control of the Alderwood library at the beginning of 2005. Greenway suggested the partnership with the local school district because he said he feels city residents will be shortchanged by the regional library system. Greenway said the financial figures regional library officials are releasing show that Alderwood residents are paying more into the system than they are getting. \"I think we can take that same 50 and do just as good or better,\" said Greenway. Councilwoman Jennie Angel, who is involved with the Alderwood Library Board, said regional library officials do have a plan in place to improve the local facility. Angel said she would like to see them given the opportunity to improve the facility before any talks of taking back the library happen. Alderwood School District Superintendent Dr. Aaron Bones didn't rule out such a discussion between the district and the city. Bones did caution there would have to be some changes made in the materials offered at the library if the district managed the facility because of the youths who would use it. . John Panni can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or email him at mPanni@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101162470201","Title":"School district, city at odds on needed infrastructure upgrade","Author":"John Panni","Time":"11/5/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"One thing can be gathered from Thursday night's joint meeting between the Alderwood City Council and the Alderwood School Board-communication has been lacking between the two entities. The lack of communication centers around the costs and design of infrastructure improvements for the new middle school the district is building along Washout Road. At the center of the discussion is a disagreement between the district's engineers and the city's engineers on what is needed to install water and sewer lines in the area. The district has an option that would save taxpayers some 300,000, but this would involve the installation of a 10-inch water main. The city, though, requires that all developments install a 12-inch water main with no exceptions. Alderwood School District Superintendent Dr. Aaron Bones backtracked and went over some of the history of how the district selected the property on Washout Road. He said when it was decided the district would purchase property, a committee was formed to look at different parcels. The committee included two former City of Alderwood employees. One of the first options was building a new school behind Pioneer Elementary. Bones said the district also looked at property along Mabton Highway, but finally decided on the Washout Road property after receiving a good bid. Bones said all together the district looked at 11 or 12 pieces of property to build the new school, including areas near the airport and on Cemetery Road. Bones said the district will be building a new middle school, which is set to begin construction this spring, to help meet the increased enrollment expected. Currently, the district serves 5,700 students with the figure expected to rise to 6,200 in the next three to four years. On the same property along Washout Road, the district will be building a new elementary school after it completes construction of the middle school. Councilwoman Jennie Angel said she wished the district had looked more at properties the city had that has infrastructure in place. School board member Fred Kilian interjected, saying one of the reasons the district picked the property was that it was told the city would be annexing property out in that area as the city continues to grow. Some confusion arose when Councilman John Torch stated that he thought the issue concerning the installation of water mains had been solved by the engineers, apparently to the blind eye of the school district. Alderwood City Manager Tom Rockford elaborated on Torch' comments, saying that in a meeting he sat in on, both sides were able to bring the costs of installation for water and sewer lines down with some creative designs. \"What looked like a barrier was really being driven by costs,\" said Rockford. Rockford changed the subject briefly and said the city is looking at applying for a Community Development Block Grant next year to help with some of the expenses for covering the irrigation ditch in the area. He said the district and the city will have to also look at the traffic impacts in the area. Rockford, though, cautioned the school board members that it is very important that the city and the district work together on the project. He said the partnership will help secure such needed things as grants to lower the costs to taxpayers. Rockford also encouraged better communication between the city and the district when it comes to talking about traffic impacts. He said the same lack of communication that took place with infrastructure can't happen again. \"We got past this one because we started talking creatively,\" said Rockford. Wells, though, understood the city's point on not budging from its requirement of a 12-inch main, but said the job of the school board is to try and save patrons dollars. Wells said he would like to see the city open to other options with the installation of infrastructure. Rockford disagreed with Wells, saying he would not ask the city to budge from its requirements. Rockford said no developer coming into the community would ask the city to change its infrastructure requirements. Bones added that he wasn't aware that any matter had been settled in regards to infrastructure. Bones said he sees a difference of 300,000 in infrastructure costs between what the district and the city is proposing. School board member Fred Kilian said he can remembering seeing maps brought forth by former city employees that said infrastructure installation for the school project would work. \"I am not going to argue about who said where and when,\" said Kilian. \"All I am saying is I better get the damn thing (school) built before you have a new engineer.\" Mayor Rex Luthor suggested that Bones and Rockford sit down and negotiate an agreement between the two sides, settling all the issues for the project on which both sides can agree. . John Panni can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or email him at mPanni@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101162470451","Title":"Story Time","Author":"Bob Story","Time":"11/5/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Strange, the people we meet in our everyday lives. These are the people who don't realize they are entwined in our existences. They are the people we don't really know, but whom we see almost weekly, maybe daily. The people I speak of might be that clerk that sells you your soda before you head off to work, greeting you with a friendly \"good morning,\" or the lady at the latte stand, who always asks how your day is going. Maybe it's the guy who picks up your garbage, who always has a joke or a chuckle at the ready, or the lady in church whom you smile at and nod to every Sunday, the one who provides you with a brief respite by constantly whispering in her four children's ears to quit scuffling and sit up straight. These people aren't our family members, most times we can't even call them friends. They're just people, acquaintances so to speak, people who don't realize that they're an integrated part of our lives. We all have such people in our lives. Our understanding of them, and their's of us, is superficial. We present what we want them to see. We really don't know much about each other, other than what can be obtained in the brief moments we share. Most times, we all put on a good front with these types of people. We smile, cordially exchange pleasantries, politely comment on the weather. Generally, we treat them in a manner that is expected to be reciprocated. These aren't the people to whom we vent our built-up frustrations, complain to about the boss at work who's making our lives miserable or chew out for the cruddy dinner that was served up the previous night. No, these are the people we hardly know, yet we are always polite to them, always talk civil to them and always put on our best face for them. Why is it that for these people, the ones we barely know, we can always be on our best? But for the people we count on most in our lives, our family, we treat them shamefully at times? We're not always pleasant with our loved ones...we snarl, we grumble, we complain, we question, we yell, we curse. There are times we don't even try to act human with the people who mean the most to us...we don't think to offer up even a flimsy compliment to our wife or husband, or tell our son or daughter what a great job they did in scoring a B on this week's history test. Instead, we display our bad sides to our loved ones, on too many occasions. One of the downfalls of the human species is that we take things for granted. Loved ones fall into that category. From someone who knows, from someone who regrets their past actions with loved ones and has lamented relationships that are no more, value your family. Put stock in what you have, and treat those who mean the most to you with the utmost respect they deserve. . Bob Story,can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or e-mail him at bstory@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101162470717","Title":"Guest Editorial","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"11/5/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"SAM BOSTAPH Washington, D.C. will soon begin construction of a new taxpayer-funded baseball stadium at an estimated cost of 400 million, give or take 50 million. Thirty-three years after the Washington Senators left town to become the Texas Rangers, a majority vote of the D.C. city council will fill the vacancy by providing the former Montreal Expos the stadium that Montreal voters denied them. Touting the project, Mayor Anthony Williams of Washington claims that the revenue bonds that will be issued to build the stadium will be paid off completely by a lease payment of 15 million a year, by taxes on facility revenues, and by socking large businesses in D.C. with a new tax. Coincidentally, about two and a half hours away by air is Arlington, Texas, home of the former Senators, now the Texas Rangers, and the scene of another new stadium proposal. Local voters are being urged to approve a similar deal to build a football stadium to house the Dallas Cowboys just next door to the existing Rangers' stadium. The subsidy request comes from Jerry Wells, the owner of the Cowboys. The requested Arlington-taxpayer subsidy is estimated by the city's treasury manager to be about 600 million, including interest. New taxes are necessary to get the money. Local politicians in Arlington are trying to sell the deal to voters with the same promises D.C. officials made: lease payments to the city, jobs, redevelopment of surrounding areas, and higher revenues to local businesses. The job and multi-million-dollar local-business revenue projections all come from a study, funded by the Cowboys, that treats every dollar of revenue and every job created as new. This ignores the fact that since the new Cowboys stadium will be only a few miles away from the old one, current workers at the stadium will not have to move their homes or their spending and that construction employees will only be temporary. Also, the revenue projections are based on projections of future game attendance and other uses of the stadium that could easily prove wrong, and they ignore the \"distribution effect\" money spent on game attendance is money not spent on other entertainment and recreation. What about the lease payment? In contrast to D.C., the city of Arlington will receive an insultingly meager 2 million a year in rental fees and 5 percent of the money paid for the naming rights to the stadium, up to a ceiling of 500,000 annually. Obviously, the total won't even cover the interest payment on the bonds. Taxpayers will be out the principal and most of the interest. Wells has offered to throw in another 16.5 million for \"youth programs,\" to pay the local school district the revenue it would lose from any private property seized by the city for Wells's use, and to bribe local minority groups with discriminatory minority set-asides. If the proposed stadium subsidy is not a shrewd investment opportunity for Arlington, then what is it? Economists refer to such programs as \"transfer programs\" or, more honestly, \"business welfare\" programs. Money is taken from taxpayers, and real property is condemned, so that it can be transferred to those held in higher favor by public officials. In a word, thievery. This is most blatant in the plans to seize the property of those living south of the proposed building site. Wells and local politicians propose to milk taxpayers and steal property to benefit Wells, subsidize football fans, favor businesses near the stadium, and provide local politicians with another costly monument to boosterism next to the one that was built for the Rangers. The same sorts of promises that were made to voters to build the Rangers' stadium are being made once again. In the case of the Rangers, the results failed to match the hype. The stimulus to land development around the park failed to materialize and the park itself sits empty most of the year. There is one substantive difference between the Washington, D.C., situation and that in Arlington, Texas. In D.C., voters replaced three pro-ballpark council members with three opposed to the scheme; but the new members don't take office until after December 31. Mayor Williams and the majority of the old council are rushing to approve the issuance of revenue bonds before then in an end run around voters. The Arlington council occupies a higher ground. The proposal itself was put to voters on November 2. Lacking their approval, the deal is dead in the water. It should be. Samuel Bostaph is head of the economics department at the University of Dallas and an academic advisor to The Future of Freedom Foundation (www.fff.org"}
{"Id":"1101162470951","Title":"Grizzlies end season with a loss","Author":"Bob Story","Time":"11/5/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"The 2004 season didn't end on a bright note for the Alderwood High School football team. The Grizzlies ended their year with a lopsided 31-14 loss last night to 2A Naches, which was the number five seed out of the Central Washington Athletic Conference. Alderwood Coach Mark Marro didn't offer any great excuses for the loss. \"We just didn't play real well,\" said Marro. \"They (Naches) came out fired up.\" Marro said the Grizzlies have been in a bit of a downslide since having to go into Ellensburg only at half strength with its roster. Marro said it has been hard for his team to get out of the mode. \"We really dropped at the end of the year,\" said Marro. \"It is difficult to keep that intensity level.\" Marro said the last game of the season was also difficult for his team because there wasn't much left to play for, with the Grizzlies being out of the playoffs. After a scoreless opening quarter, the Grizzlies pulled ahead 7-0 when Greg Gilleland dashed in from five yards out. Naches, though, answered back, scoring with about 30 seconds left in the first half. Alderwood took a 7-6 lead into the break. Naches went wild in the second half on the Alderwood defense, scoring 25 unanswered points. \"We gave up a couple of deep balls and that just gave them life,\" said Marro. Alderwood's last touchdown of the year came in the fourth quarter when quarterback Tony Cantu hooked up with Noe Zamarron on a 21-yard touchdown pass. The Grizzlies posted mediocre statistics in the game. Cantu was 4-of-11 in the game for 79 yards. Gilleland had eight rushes for 49 yards. Marro said Naches' defense did a great job of stopping Alderwood's rushing game. The Rangers also put together an effective ground attack, spreading the ball around between three players for nearly 150 yards. \"They were faster than us,\" said Marro. \"They had the best game of their season.\" Alderwood finished its season with a Mid-Valley League record of 2-4, good for fifth place. The Grizzlies were 4-6 overall on the year"}
{"Id":"1101162488139","Title":"Lincoln School kindergarteners in favor of Bush","Author":"Jamie Smart","Time":"11/3/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"While the long lines of adult voters waited to cast their votes in Lincoln School gym Tuesday, the students in Sue Downing's kindergarten classroom were also making choices. The 5- and 6-year-olds took turns casting their votes for presidential candidates and for their favorite foods. \"It was a way for the children to experience the excitement of the electoral process,\" said Downing. The youngsters had their own ballots with photographs of President George Bush and Challenger John Kerry, as well as pictures of grapes, apples, pizza, hot dogs, gloves and mittens. When the votes were counted, the young voters favored Bush over Kerry by a 10-6 margin, following the national trend. By the way, they also prefer grapes to apples, gloves to mittens and pizza to hot dogs"}
{"Id":"1101162488420","Title":"Washington voters approve new style of primary election","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"11/3/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Election day isn't just a day when the next president of the United States is decided. It is also a day when voters get a chance to voice their opinion on the fate of various ballot measures. This year the ballot measures gave voters a chance to decide on the fate of everything from the presence of electronic scratch tickets at licensed non-tribal gaming establishments to the creation of an education trust fund in the state. Tuesday, voters came out in force and let their feelings be known. Initiative 872 When it comes to the creation of a new primary election format, Washington voters overwhelming voted for change. In Yakima County, 67.8 percent of voters approved the initiative. This mirrors the response from voters across Washington state, where 59.9 percent voted for the initiative. The initiative gives voters a chance to vote for all candidates in a primary election with the top two candidates moving on to the general election, regardless of party affiliation. Those opposed to the initiative were concerned that the two-top primary could result in a single party election in some races come November. According to the State of Washington Voters' pamphlet, the passage of I-872 could mean lowering the annual cost of the primary election system by as much as 6 million from the system currently in place. Initiative 884 Initiative 884 asked voters to approve the creation of an education trust fund by increasing the sales tax across the state by 1 percent. This was a measure voted down by voters yesterday. In Yakima County, 60.59 percent of voters voted against I-884. These numbers nearly mirror the results statewide, where 60.74 percent of voters decided against the initiative. Those against the initiative pointed to the fact that Washington is already the seventh highest taxed state in the nation and already has one of the highest sales tax rates. Those for the initiative felt it would help provide additional funding for the state's education system. If the measure had passed it would have increased the state sales tax, which currently sits at 7.5 percent, by 1 percent. This new revenue would have been put aside to help support education throughout the state. According to the Washington State Voters' pamphlet, it would have provided additional funds for K-12 schools, as well as pre-school assistance for low income children and post-secondary education. Initiative 892 Tuesday, voters flexed their muscles and voted down Initiative 892, which dealt with electronic scratch ticket machines. The initiative would have made it possible for authorized, licensed non-tribal gambling establishments to bring in the same type of gaming machines used at tribal casinos. According to the initiative, the revenue brought in from the additional gaming machines would have been used to reduce state property taxes. In Washington state, 60.63 percent of voters marked no on their ballots, leading to the defeat of the measure. In Yakima County, results were very similar with 60.17 percent of voters against the initiative. Referendum Measure 55 The second education measure on the ballot didn't fare much better than the first. Tuesday, voters in Washington voted down Referendum Measure 55, which would have made it possible to establish charter schools in the state. The measure would have made it possible for charter schools to be operated by \"qualified non-profit corporations, under contracts with local education boards.\" The charter schools would have been allocated a certain amount of public funds for operation. Again, the percentage of voters who voted against Referendum 55 in Washington state is almost exactly the same as the percentage of those who voted against it in Yakima County. Across the state, 58.42 percent of voters voted against the measure. In Yakima County, 58.77 percent of voters voted against it. Jim Spady with the Washington Charter School Resource Center noted that he feels the Washington education system is currently in crisis. \"We must do more to help our educationally disadvantaged students,\" Spady said. \"Charter public schools will help these children, but the voters have apparently decided to give the regular public school system more time to solve this crisis on its own.\" Initiative 297 One measure voters across the state turned out to support was Initiative 297, which deals with radioactive hazardous waste at the Hanford Nuclear Reservation. The initiative adds new previsions concerning the waste, making it necessary for the waste that is at the site to be cleaned up before any more waste can be brought into the facility. In Yakima County, 61.66 percent of voters voted for the measure, compared to 68.51 percent who approved it across the state. Proposition No. 1 Locally, Yakima County voters approved Proposition No. 1, which called for a three-tenth's of a penny increase in the county's sales tax to help fund the area's criminal justice system. The proposition will be in effect for a six-year period before it is brought back to the voters. Throughout Yakima County, 56.04 percent of voters voted for the proposition. The proposition is expected to raise 6.1 million annually for the Yakima County criminal justice system, with the funds being dispersed to law enforcement agencies throughout the county"}
{"Id":"1101162488733","Title":"Obtiuaries","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"11/3/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"GAYLORD MANNING FREEPONS GAYLORD MANNING FREEPONS Gaylord Manning Freepons, 80, of Alderwood died Monday, Nov. 1, 2004, at Hillcrest Manor in Alderwood. He was born July 15, 1924 in Walla Walla to Ernest T. Freepons and Phyllis (Johnson) Freepons. He attended Valley Chapel Elementary School. After completing the eight grade he attended Walla Walla High School. After graduating he worked on the family farm and briefly attended Washington State University. On Dec. 4, 1949 he married Loretta Murchland at the Prosser Baptist Church. Together they raised seven children, and developed many acres of productive farmland. He is survived by his wife of 55 years, Loretta Freepons; two daughters, Connie (Steve) Coombs of Fielding, Utah and Alys (Mike) Means of Prosser; five sons, Mike (Teresa), Jeff (Jody), Marc (Sandy), Tom (Linda) and Phil (Brenda) Freepons, all of Prosser; 15 grandchildren; two great-grandchildren; one sister, Doris Freepons Norman of Pasco; one sister-in-law, Bette Freepons Fread of Walla Walla; numerous nieces and nephews. He was preceded in death by his parents; an infant sister, Virginia; one sister, Marion; and three brothers, Richard, Edward and Donald. An open house will be held for family and friends Saturday, Nov. 13, 2004, from 1 to 4 p.m. at 1114 Colena St., Prosser. In lieu of flowers, memorial contributions can be made to the Muscular Dystrophy Association, 101 W. Indiana Ave., Spokane, WA 99205 or Prosser High School Future Farmers of America (FFA), 1203 Prosser Ave., Prosser, WA 99350. ESTHER LOIS SHOCKLEY Esther Lois Shockley, 91, of Alderwood died Tuesday, Nov. 2, 2004, at Hillcrest Manor in Alderwood. She was born in Alderwood in 1913 to Thomas and Elta (Sparks) Muir. She attended grade school at Maple Grove School and completed her education in the Alderwood schools. On Feb. 1, 1931 she married Clifford I. Shockley in Alderwood. They farmed in the Outlook area. In 1956 they moved to the Tri-Cities, where they continued farming. She worked in retail at Haskins, J.C. Penney and Sears. She is survived by two daughters, Beverly Newhouse (John) of Alderwood and Carole Plunkitt (Jim) of Richland; one sister, Ruth Warmenhoven (Cornie) of Kennewick; one brother-in-law, Cecil Shockley (Pauline) of Outlook; seven grandchildren; 12 great-grandchildren. She was preceded in death by her husband, Clifford Shockley; her parents; two sisters, Leta Travaille and Verna Belcher; and two brothers, Buster and Donald Muir. Viewing and visitation will be held Friday, Nov. 5, 2004, from 1 to 8 p.m. and Saturday, Nov. 6, 2004, from 9 a.m. to 1 p.m. at Wells Funeral Home, Alderwood. Funeral services will be held Saturday, Nov. 6, 2004, at 1:30 p.m. at Wells Funeral Home. Burial will be at Lower Valley Memorial Gardens, Alderwood. Memorials may be made to Grace Brethren Church Missions Program. Wells Funeral Home is in charge of arrangements. STEVE J. EVANS Steve J. Evans, 50, of Alderwood was called home to his Savior Friday, Oct. 30, 2004, due to an apparent heart attack while enjoying his favorite pastime, hunting. Steve was born July 11, 1954 in St. Paul, Minn., the son of Jayne LaClaire (Skold) and Merlyn Wayne Evans. He received his high school diploma from Colville High School. Steve served in the U.S. Army from 1973 to 1976 with the 101 Airborne Divisions at Fort Campbell, Ky. In 1977 Steve started his employment with the Alderwood Police Department. He graduated from the Seattle Police Academy returning to the Alderwood Police Department., where he served as a patrolman, a detective and was active on the H.E.A.T Team. Steve was very instrumental in getting the Alderwood Police Department. accredited. He was a DARE/GREAT teacher and one of his favorite projects was obtaining and restoring a car for the DARE program. He was the Explorer post advisor and advanced hunter educator instructor. Steve was also active in the Alderwood Fire Department as a volunteer and EMT. On Sept. 8, 2001 he married Dawna Page in Alderwood, where they made their home. Steve enjoyed camping, the outdoors, hunting, fishing, fly tying, reloading shells, working in his yard, designing and building projects, and restoring old cars. He was a Civil War buff. Steve was a member of the Alderwood Grace Brethren Church. He is survived by his wife, Dawna; daughter, MacKenzie Lynn (Tinky Butt) of Alderwood; daughter, Amanda Evans of Federal Way, and daughter, Dana Evans of James Town, N.D.; one grandson, Coven Mikel Evans. He is also survived by his mother and stepfather, Jim and Jayne Northrup of Colville; his mother-in-law, Sharon Page; one brother, Dennis Evans (Vicki) of Montana; three sisters, Linda Bylsma (Pete) of Olympia, Lisa Austin (Tim) of Monroe, and Diane Clark (James) of Canada; one stepbrother, Randy Northrup of Seattle; two stepsisters, Pam Evans of Spokane and Candy Acevedo (Gil), of Spokane; his brother-in-law, Joshua Page of Alderwood; and numerous nieces and nephews. He was preceded in death by his father, Merlyn Wayne Evans. Viewing and visitation will be held Friday, Nov. 5, 2004, from 3 to 8 p.m. at Wells Funeral Home, Alderwood. Funeral services will be held Saturday, Nov. 6, 2004, at 10 a.m. at Grace Brethren Church in Alderwood. Military graveside services will be held at Lower Valley Memorial Gardens, Alderwood. In lieu of flowers, those wishing to honor Steve s memory may contribute to the MacKenzie Evans College Scholarship Fund at Yakima Federal Savings and Loan in Alderwood. Daddy, even though I m too little to express myself with words and my thoughts remain unspoken, I want you to know that I love when you look at me, talk to me, and most of all when you play with me. When I look back at you and smile, that s my way of letting you know that you make me happy and I love you very much. Being your daughter is the best thing that ever happened to me! I love You Paw Paw, MacKenzie"}
{"Id":"1101162488967","Title":"Working Stiff","Author":"John Panni","Time":"11/2/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Johnny Bueno of Alderwood isn't shy about telling people his age. Bueno gladly will say that he is 3, going on 33. What has kept this long-time Alderwood native so young at heart is his job. Bueno is a classroom assistant with the EPIC childhood education program in Alderwood. His duties as a classroom assistant means he helps the head teacher prepare for each school day. EPIC provides pre-school services to children ages 3-1/2 to 5 years old. Bueno said EPIC tries to fill the program with older children first and then if it can't it turns to the younger applicants. Bueno must really enjoy his job because he has been doing it for 14 years. \"I first started as a volunteer,\" he said. \"Then I applied for an open position.\" What keeps Bueno at his job? \"I enjoy the interaction I have with the children and the families,\" said Bueno. \"That is what has kept me there.\" Besides the children, Bueno said the best part of going to work is being around his co-workers. \"It is kind of like my home away from home,\" said Bueno. \"The environment is very friendly.\" Just how many children has Bueno dealt with over the last 14 years? Bueno took some time to count some of his past pupils and came up with 564 children he has helped prepare for the public school system. Bueno said his favorite part of seeing former students is being able to look at the progress each child has made. \"Looking at them makes me feel old,\" laughed Bueno. When he is not at work, Bueno is busy taking care of his family. Bueno and his wife, Betty, have three children, Devina, 6, Emilio, 3, and Jonathan, 1, with another child on the way. In his spare time, Bueno, a 1990 graduate of Alderwood High School, enjoys reading books and collecting toys. \"I also try to spend as much time as I can with my kids,\" smiled Bueno. Right now, Bueno is splitting time between his family, work and attending Yakima Valley Community College, where he is scheduled to earn his Associate's degree at the end of winter quarter. Bueno will have an Associate's degree in pre-school education with an option in special education. Bueno then plans to obtain a Bachelor's degree in education. \"My goal in life is to either work with pre-school children or be a kindergarten teacher,\" said Bueno. Bueno said what he enjoys about working with younger children is that they use their imagination in learning. If there was a hard part to his job, Bueno said it is saying goodbye to the children at the end of each school year. \"I always feel like we have accomplished a lot in our nine months working with the kids,\" said Bueno. Bueno always tries to teach the students he works with the power of thinking positive. \"I hope they learn from me to never say never when trying to accomplish a task,\" said Bueno. \"I try to let my kids know to just try your best"}
{"Id":"1101162489201","Title":"Nethercutt makes late night visit to Alderwood looking for votes","Author":"John Panni","Time":"11/2/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Yesterday wasn't an ordinary Monday for Congressman George Nethercutt. Nethercutt began a whirlwind tour of Washington state Monday morning, which included an 11 p.m. stop in Alderwood, as he tries to become the first senator from the east side of the state in 82 years. \"I am going to be that senator. I have the right values,\" Nethercutt told a large crowd gathered outside of The Outpost convenience store Monday night. \"We are going to bring strong leadership to the United States Senate because you deserve it.\" But to become the first senator from Eastern Washington in more than 80 years, the Spokane Republican will need all the votes he can get on this election day to unseat Democrat incumbent Patty Murray. \"We are not quitting until we win this election,\" said Nethercutt, as he deboarded one of two chartered buses filled with campaign supporters. \"I want everybody in the state to know I want to win this election,\" said Nethercutt. Even though Nethercutt is an underdog in his campaign to unseat Murray, it is not the first time the congressman has had his back against the wall. In 1994, Nethercutt pulled off a stunning political upset of Tom Foley, who was speaker of the House of Representatives at the time, for the Washington's fifth congressional district seat. It was the first time since 1860 that a sitting speaker of the house had lost a re-election campaign. Nethercutt, who was heading to his next stop in Yakima, encouraged the crowd in Alderwood to go out and talk with their neighbors about his campaign and what he can bring to Washington residents. \"I am not worried about polls. I am not worried about editorials,\" said Nethercutt. \"I am worried about the people who go out to vote.\" Nethercutt told the crowd that it is time for a change in the United States Senate. \"Patty Murray never comes here,\" said Nethercutt. \"Patty Murray is a sad incumbent.\" Nethercutt went over some of the issues his campaign is standing on as it looks to garner enough supporters to unseat Murray. Nethercutt said he is in favor of cutting taxes, supporting the troops fighting the war overseas and medical liability reform. Nethercutt said Murray has voted against all those issues while in the Senate. Nethercutt ended his stop in Alderwood by encouraging people to go out and vote for him and other Republican candidates. Nethercutt also left the crowd in Alderwood with one promise if elected to the Senate. \"This won't be the last time you see me in Alderwood,\" said Nethercutt"}
{"Id":"1101162489451","Title":"Passion for teaching earns Steen state accolades","Author":"Jamie Smart","Time":"11/2/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"MABTON - One cannot listen to Tamara Steen talk and not be drawn into her web of enthusiasm. Whether she is talking about organizing candlelight poetry readings for her reluctant teenage poetry students or spending her lunch hours teaching a senior how to read, Steen oozes the passion she feels for her job as a Mabton High School English teacher. Her enthusiasm, as well as her novel approach to the dreaded, but necessary language arts, has earned the 22-year teaching veteran the state's highest education honor. Late last week, Steen was named Washington's \"Teacher of the Year.\" Steen, along with Mabton High School Principal Keith Morris and Mabton School District Superintendent Dr. Sandra Pasiero-Davis, traveled to Seattle, where Steen thought she was to be recognized along with eight other regional teachers of the year. Her surprise at being named the state's top educator continues to stun the woman, who is never at a loss for words. \"I'm still overwhelmed at the honor,\" Steen said yesterday (Monday) at a press conference held in her honor at the Mabton High School library. \"I'm happy to be the recipient of this award,\" she said. \"I truly believe there is no greater job than being a teacher,\" she added. Steen credited her fellow teachers, as well as her students, for making her job exciting and rewarding every day. \"It's frequently frustrating, but absolutely never boring,\" she laughed. Steen, who began her career teaching seventh and eighth grade English, has taught high school English for the past 11 years at Mabton High School. This year she was selected as the Mabton School District's literacy coach. She has taught all levels of students, from remedial to advanced placement English, a program she helped to establish for the Mabton School District. Steen is a teacher who lives near her students and frequently invites them into her home for socials, which from time to time involve mystery theater dinners. She demonstrates and uses her talent for inspiring others to adapt to the educational process, say her contemporaries. \"I've been impressed with Tamara's ability to acknowledge all of her students with humor, style and love,\" said Pasiero-Davis. \"We are part of a team,\" Steen explained. \"Every year, I claim I have the best students I've ever had. And I do every year,\" she added. \"I knew when I was eight that I wanted to be a teacher,\" Steen said. \"I love it and think teaching is the best job in the world,\" she said. Her students also appreciate the love she brings to the classroom. \"I've looked forward to being in her classes all my life,\" said long-time Mabton native Katie Beeman, one of Steen's high school English honors students. \"She makes class fun and exciting, and material we don't understand she acts out to make it easier to understand and interesting,\" Beeman said. \"She always finds a way to help us understand,\" agreed Alida Mendoza, who also is one of Steen's English honors students. \"Her class is hard, but she makes us understand. We know she could go anywhere to teach. But she sticks with us,\" Mendoza said. As the state's teacher of the year, Steen will find that she will have to be out of the classroom. \"She will be traveling a lot this year, as an education ambassador to Olympia to talk with legislators, and to other districts to share her special brand of teaching talents,\" said Pasiero-Davis. \"She will travel to Huntsville, Alabama to visit a NASA space camp. Tamara will also be going to Washington, D.C. to represent Washington at the National Educator of the Year awards program,\" Pasiero-Davis added. \"I have eight essays to write in order to compete for that honor,\" Steen added. \"It's a good thing I like to write,\" she laughed"}
{"Id":"1101162489686","Title":"Grandview police have busy Halloween weekend","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"11/2/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"GRANDVIEW - Grandview police were kept busy this past weekend answering calls involving burglaries, auto thefts and vehicle prowls. The weekend got underway Friday morning when Grandview police dispatchers received a call that a black Honda Civic had been stolen from the 400 block of West Fifth Street, according to Grandview Police Officer Mark Ware. Ware said the vehicle, which reportedly had two occupants, eluded the combined efforts of the Grandview police, Washington State Patrol and Yakima County Sheriff deputies, before being abandoned at a crash scene. The car thieves were headed west on Forsell Road, when the missed a curve at Puterbaugh Road before crashing into a fence near Stover Road and I-82, Ware explained. The two suspects fled the scene on foot and officers were unable to get a description of the suspects, Ware said. Two burglaries reported within minutes of each other on Friday evening found that someone had broken into an apartment building in the 900 block of West Second Street, where the walls were vandalized with gang-related graffiti, Ware explained. However, in the second reported burglary in the 500 block of Avenue \"H\", two male juveniles, 14 and 15, were apprehended and taken into custody on suspicion of breaking and entry, vandalism and malicious mischief. They were taken into custody. Ware said charges against the two males were sent to Yakima juvenile authorities. Sunday morning, a vehicle prowl near Division Avenue resulted in the theft of a car stereo from one vehicle, while a would-be thief in the 100 block of Arikara Drive was scared away when the owner of the vehicle surprised him. \"The descriptions for the suspects in both cases were again sketchy, \" said Ware. \"We're not sure if the two vehicle prowls are related,\" he said. A burglary at a storage unit in the 100 block of Wine Country Road was reported later Sunday morning. According to the police report, the break-in resulted in the theft of a bike. 'There was plenty of other stuff in the storage unit,\" said Ware. \"But only the bike was taken.\" The Grandview police are also investigating a burglary in the 100 block of North Birch and a reported theft in the 100 block of Wine Country Road, both of which were reported on Monday, but as of Tuesday, details were unavailable"}
{"Id":"1101162489920","Title":"Mabton gridders clip Eagles' wings","Author":"Bob Story","Time":"11/1/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"MABTON - Win and they're in. But lose this coming Friday night, and the Mabton High School football team will have to hold its breath to see if it qualifies for the postseason. The Vikings are on the cusp of advancing to the playoffs thanks to this past Friday's dominating 53-8 victory over the Soap Lake Eagles. The win pushed Mabton's Central Washington 'B' League record to 5-2. Mabton will close out the regular season on Entiat's home field this coming Friday. Entiat's playoff hopes are barely alive, meaning that they have to beat Mabton and then hope for an upset or two from a couple of other teams in their league to advance. The bottom line, said Mabton Coach D.J. Search, is that his Vikes need to knock off Entiat this coming Friday. \"They'll be the best passing team we've faced this season,\" Search said. \"And, they're coming off a really big win against Pateros.\" Search said his club won't do anything out of the ordinary to shut down Entiat's prolific passing game. \"It will be assignment football as usual,\" he said. \"We'll stick with our basic game plan.\" That may serve the Mabton football team well. Especially considering what the Vikes did to visiting Soap Lake this past Friday. Namely, Mabton limited the Eagles to just 95 yards of total offense. Offensively against Soap Lake, the Vikings had their way with the Eagles. By the time the second quarter rolled around, Mabton had already built a 33-0 lead. For the most part, the game was over. Search substituted freely after the opening quarter, allowing all of his younger players to get playing time. \"Our younger kids got lots of varsity experience last Friday,\" he said. Scoring-wise for Mabton, the Vikes' defensive unit was responsible for 8 of the 53 points. Marco Pineda blocked a Soap Lake punt in the first quarter and recovered the loose pigskin in the end zone for a touchdown, and Jesus Diaz sacked the Eagles quarterback in the end zone for a fourth quarter safety. On the offensive side of the ball, Mabton's Alex Zavala ran in two TD's. The first came on a 12-yard burst and the second touchdown was a 43-yard breakaway run. Mabton QB Ryan Harris was responsible for two touchdowns, as well. He tossed a 36-yard scoring strike to Pablo Sanchez, Harris' only throw of the game, and he danced in from 14 yards out on a quarterback keeper. Scoring one touchdown apiece for the Vikings, all on runs, were Eli Perez, Ray Elizondo and Ramon Castillo. Zavala had the most carries in the game against Soap Lake, rushing the ball six times for 68 yards. Sanchez added a 46-yard rushing effort on four totes"}
{"Id":"1101162490186","Title":"Selah blanks the Grizzlies","Author":"John Panni","Time":"11/1/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"SELAH - It was a long night for the faithful of the Alderwood High School football team this past Friday night in Selah. The Grizzlies were thumped by their Mid-Valley League rivals 35-0, as a fired up Selah team took care of business, said Grizzly Coach Mark Marro. \"They wanted it more,\" said Marro of the Vikings. Friday night's loss marks the second week in a row that the Grizzlies have been shut out. Alderwood lost 20-0 at Ellensburg the previous week. Alderwood (2-4, 4-5) will be looking to end the 2004 season on a bright note this Thursday night, as the Grizzlies host 2A Naches. Friday night's game against the Vikings wasn't played as badly as the final score might indicate. Going into the second half, the Vikings had a mere a 14-0 lead following a late second quarter touchdown. In the second half, the Vikings used a strong ground game to rack up three touchdowns to account for the final score. The last touchdown by the Vikings came on a 72-yard burst by Rowan Ringer late in the game. Marro offered few excuses for his team's performance on Friday night. \"We just didn't get off the ball,\" said Marro. \"They (Selah) controlled the line of scrimmage.\" The Grizzlies did manage to threaten inside Selah's 20-yard line a few times, said Marro, but the drives ended up self destructing. Marro said in the second half Selah simply was overpowering. \"They physically got after it,\" said Marro. \"We came out flat. They (Selah) just took it to us.\" Marro said Alderwood had several players who put forth a strong individual effort, but the team chemistry wasn't flowing enough to keep up with how Selah was playing. Alderwood's Greg Gilleland nearly had a 100-yard rushing night, gaining 95 yards on 21 carries. Teammate Joe Schwartz had 25 yards on eight totes. The Vikings did most of their damage on the ground, as Ringer ran for 132 yards on just 10 carries. Marro is looking to end the season strong this Thursday night at home against Naches. The Grizzlies will have an opportunity to finish .500 for the season with a win over the Rangers. \"They are a good team,\" said Marro. \"We are going to have to get after it"}
{"Id":"1101162490436","Title":"Obituaries","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"11/1/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"NORA GONZALEZ NORA GONZALEZ Nora Marlen Gonzalez, 11, of Alderwood died Thursday, Oct. 28, 2004, at Harborview Medical Center in Seattle. She was born on Oct. 22, 1993 in Prosser, the daughter of Nora (Salinas) and Oscar Gonzalez. She was currently attending fifth grade at Pioneer School in Alderwood. She is survived by her parents, Oscar and Nora Gonzalez of Alderwood; one brother, Oscar Gonzalez Jr.; two sisters, Leslie Brighit Gonzalez and Ichnic Maria Gonzalez, all of Alderwood; her grandparents, Maria Guajardo of Texas, Elizar Gonzalez of Mattawa, Francisco and Maria B. Salinas of Mexico; and aunts, uncles and cousins. Viewing and visitation will be held Monday, Nov. 1, 2004, from 10 a.m. to 8 p.m. with a Rosary to be recited at 6 p.m. at Wells Funeral Home, Alderwood. Mass of Christian Burial will be held Tuesday, Nov. 2, 2004, at 10 a.m. at St. Joseph Catholic Church, Alderwood. Wells Funeral Home, Alderwood, is in charge of arrangements. CECILO CRUZ Cecilo Cruz, 95, of Alderwood passed away Wednesday, Oct. 27, 2004, in Alderwood. Mr. Cruz was born Nov. 22, 1908 at Palafox, Texas to Martinez and Enriqueta (Hernandez) Cruz. He received his early education in Palafox. He migrated from Texas in 1951 and worked as a farm laborer, and later as foreman of Broadview Farms until he retired at the age of 65. Cecilo was a loving father, grandpa and great-grandpa and enjoyed being with the children. He also enjoyed woodwork, yard work and just being outdoors. He will always be missed and in the hearts of his three daughters, Irma Martinez of Alderwood, Sandy Cavagnaro of Seattle and Gracie Bravo of Grandview; his three sons, Aurtio Cruz and wife, Maria, of Grandview, Joe Cecil Cruz of Prosser and John Cruz of Alderwood. He is also survived by 18 grandchildren, 19 great-grandchildren and seven great-great-grandchildren. Viewing for Mr. Cruz will be held Monday, Nov. 1, 2004, from 4 to 8 p.m. with a Rosary to be recited at 7 p.m. at Valley Hills Funeral Home Chapel, corner of North Ave. and 11th Street, Alderwood. Viewing will also be held Tuesday, Nov. 2, 2004 from 9 a.m. to 1 p.m. with a speaker, Glen Steffin, at l p.m. Graveside funeral services will follow at Lower Valley Memorial Gardens, Alderwood, at 2 p.m. Valley Hills Funeral Home is entrusted with arrangements. WILLEM HUBERS Willem Bill Hubers, 73, of Alderwood passed away Saturday, Oct. 30, 2004, at Alderwood Community Hospital. Bill was born July 15, 1931 in The Netherlands, the son of Adriana (Van de Graaf) and Cornelis Hubers. Bill received his education and served in the U.S. Army in The Netherlands before coming to the U.S. in 1954 to join his family. Bill worked for various farmers in the Yakima Valley including Louis Syria and Harry Visser. He enjoyed going to the coffee shop twice a day, playing cards and taking trips to the casino. He cherished his nieces, nephews and time spent with family. Bill is survived by three sisters, Barbara Hubers, Adri Clapp and husband, John, and Symina Meeker, all of Alderwood; three nephews, Lawrence Meeker and wife, Joyce, Clarence Meeker and wife, Pam, and Willard Meeker; five nieces, Elaine MacDougall and husband, Jeff, Edie Graf and husband, George, Jana Sall and husband, Paige and Beth Clapp; six great-nieces; and two-great nephews. He was preceded in death by his parents. Viewing and visitation will be held Tuesday, Nov. 2, 2004, from 2 to 8 p.m. at Wells Funeral Home, Alderwood. Funeral services will be held Wednesday, Nov. 3, 2004, at 10 a.m. at Wells Funeral Home, Alderwood. Burial will be at Lower Valley Memorial Gardens, Alderwood. Those wishing to honor Bill s memory may contribute to the American Cancer Society"}
{"Id":"1101162504873","Title":"Tragedy strikes","Author":"John Panni","Time":"10/29/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"A shooting Thursday afternoon has left an 11-year-old Alderwood girl dead. Alderwood police officers responded to a shooting incident at 713 South Fourth Street on Thursday afternoon, according to Alderwood Police Officer Jim Ortiz. Ortiz said the initial call had officers responding to an attempted break-in at the residence. Alderwood Police Chief Ted Mana confirmed the name of the victim at the scene Thursday afternoon as Nala Hernandez. Ortiz said that officers arrived at the scene to find Hernandez with a gunshot wound to her forehead. \"It is tragic,\" said Ortiz. \"It was something that could have been prevented.\" Ortiz said the incident is even more tragic since Hernandez had only turned 11 years old on Oct. 22. Hernandez was transported to Alderwood Community Hospital. She was later taken to Harborview Medical Center in Seattle, where she died later in the evening. Ortiz said Hernandez and her 16-year-old brother and 14-year-old cousin were not in school. The place where the incident occurred is the residence of the 14-year-old cousin, said Ortiz. It is believed Hernandez was shot in the forehead with a small caliber handgun by her cousin, said Ortiz. Ortiz had limited information on the case this morning as it is being handled by the detective unit within the Alderwood Police Department. The initial report given by the two boys is that someone was trying to break-in to the residence. That report was proven wrong upon further questioning, said Ortiz. Ortiz said Hernandez's cousin was taken into custody and is currently being held at the Yakima County Juvenile Detention Center. Hernandez's 16-year-old brother is not in custody. According to representatives of the juvenile division of the Yakima County Prosecutor's Department, Hernandez's cousin was to have had a preliminary hearing today (Friday) at 1:30 p.m. The cousin has not officially been charged yet, according to officials at the prosecutor's office. Prosecutors did say the Alderwood Police Department has requested first degree manslaughter charges against the cousin. In response to the incident, the Alderwood School District implemented its lockdown protocol. John Hughes, director of safe and effective schools, said each building went into lockdown sometime between 1:30 and 2 p.m. Under the lockdown procedures, students were confined to the school buildings. Hughes said the district has had such protocol in place for the past three years, as part of its crisis management plan. \"We just react to situations as we feel is necessary,\" said Hughes. Hughes said in such cases as yesterday's shooting the district implemented the lockdown to ensure the safety of district students. The school district is offering counseling services to students at Chief Kamiakin Elementary School, where Hernandez was a sixth grade student. Hughes said Hernandez has been a student in the Alderwood School District since she was in kindergarten and has a lot of friends who may need counseling"}
{"Id":"1101162505139","Title":"Initiatives, referendums topic of local GOP meeting","Author":"Mel Sacher","Time":"10/29/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"State legislators Sen. Jim Honeyford and Representatives Dan Newhouse and Bruce Chandler spoke to the Alderwood Republican Club Friday morning regarding the initiatives and referendums on the ballot this year. Honeyford started off the discussion taking about Referendum 55, which, if passed will allow charter schools in Washington state as a five-year pilot project. The issue, which was passed 27 to 22 in the Senate and 51 to 46 in the House, would allow the establishment of 45 charter schools in the state. According to Honeyford, if the initiative is passed new charter public schools will be opening in the state. He added that these are not religious or private schools, but public schools, which will fall under fewer regulations than the other public schools in the state. Based on what has occurred in other states that have developed a charter school program, 13.7 percent of the students attending these schools come from home schooling, religious or other non-denominational schools. A vote to pass the initiative would approve it as the legislators originally passed it, said Honeyford. Supporters of the charter schools, which are non-profit public corporations, would be responsible for raising the initial start-up costs. There are federal grants specifically for charter schools, said Honeyford. In addition, roughly 7,000 a year per student would be allocated to the schools from the state, which is money that would have otherwise gone to the public schools. \"I don't believe that takes any money away from the public schools because it is no longer their responsibility to educate that child,\" said Honeyford. The schools will be required to take any students who apply, no mater if they have language issues, are on free or reduced lunch programs or have a learning disability. \"I view this as a way to encourage and get more students to graduate,\" said Honeyford. \"This is a big issue in Western Washington. I suspect there would be very few in Eastern Washington.\" He added that he believes that there needs to be a way to give parents another option in a district that is not doing a good job. Besides new charter schools, the law would provide that one or all schools in a district could become a charter school. The I-892 gambling issue is another that will go before voters. The initiative is designed to try and level the playing field between tribal casinos and public establishments. Honeyford said instead of pull tabs and punch cards, businesses with gambling licenses could have electronic machines, which are similar, but not slot machines. He explained that the machines would go in businesses that already have gambling licenses and that there is a cap on the number of machines that could go in. A business that has revenue of between 400,000 and 500,000 per year would be limited to seven machines. Honeyford said the tribes are supposed to pay 2 percent of their revenues in a form of tax. Non-tribal gambling pays 20 percent on revenue. \"The tribes are concerned if this passes they will have competition,\" said Chandler. \"Right now they have none.\" Newhouse discussed I-872, which, if passed, would change the state primary election process so that the top two vote-getters would go onto the general election. The initiative would basically do away with the party system and become more of a popularity contest, said Newhouse. \"Parties would no longer nominate their candidate,\" said Newhouse. He added that candidates wouldn't state a party affiliation, but would rather state a party preference. \"If a candidate dies the party would no longer be able to replace the person by party,\" said Newhouse. The initiative would also essentially make it so that no other parties would be represented. Newhouse said that in 2000, more than 180,000 people in Washington state voted for someone other than the two major party candidates. Although some believe the initiative will have little impact on the elections, Newhouse said that in the past 20 years it would have affected 33 percent of the gubernatorial races. He said it would have changed the outcome of who would have been governor because in at least one Sing the governor wouldn't have made the general election ballot. Honeyford said the real question is do people want their voice restricted in the primary or in the general election? I-292, an initiative that would cease operations at Hanford, is also on the ballot, said Newhouse. Supporters of the initiative claim that more than a million gallons of waste have already leaked out, polluting the ground and the Columbia River. The initiative would require more extensive monitoring of ground water and would stop the addition of more waste until the waste that is on the site is completely cleaned up. Newhouse said that 90 percent of the waste from Hanford is going to other states and that the initiative puts inter-state relations in jeopardy. In the end the initiative will be played out in court, believes the three local legislators. \"It's a lawyer's dream,\" said Chandler, who added that the initiative would paralyze any work going on at the site and also close Pacific Northwest Lab, one of the leading labs in the nation. The one-cent increase in the state's portion of the sales tax, proposed in I-884, was the last initiative discussed at the meeting. The initiative is in response to I-728 and I-732, which were approved by voters, but the state couldn't afford to fund. Chandler said the money raised in the tax increase would be put into a dedicated fund for schools and administered by two separate citizens boards, one for pre-school and the other for schools serving older children. Chandler said what is dangerous about the initiative is that the money will be handled by people who are not elected officials. He added that the boards will have the rule-making authority. All the education general funds from the state would also be managed by the group. He said the state is estimating that 950 million over the next five years will be levied, but Chandler feels that number is high because the tax will discourage shoppers from buying within state, which will in turn hurt the local economy"}
{"Id":"1101162505451","Title":"School Board Briefs","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"10/29/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"1-Column The Alderwood High School volleyball team was commended by Alderwood School Board members Thursday night. Superintendent Dr. Aaron Bones read a letter from the father of a Selah volleyball player that noted how impressed he was with the class shown by both Alderwood's volleyball team and the student body as a whole. The father, Ben Graf, noted that Selah had played Alderwood during the Grizzly's senior night and he appreciated that not only were Alderwood's seniors honored, but Selah's as well. 547 participated in Best SELF program Thursday night, Alderwood School Board members learned that 547 students participated in this past summer's Best SELF program. Over the course of the summer those students received 112 hours of study time, as well as a chance to take field trips, play tennis and paint murals for the Central Washington State Fair. Board commends Jensen for her work at Outlook Outlook Elementary School Nurse Colleen Jensen was commended by Outlook Principal Cathy Mears, as well as the Alderwood School Board for the way she recently reacted to a situation involving a sick child at the elementary school. Mears noted that Jensen quickly realized the child was very sick and needed immediate medical attention. The child was transferred to the local emergency room and was then taken for further care in the Tri-Cities. Mears said Jensen didn't stop at sending the child to the hospital. She also got to work hunting down the boy's parents, as well as an older brother to accompany him to the emergency room. \"Every school nurse would have done the same thing,\" Jensen said. Parks and rec thanks VICA Club for Harvest Dance success Thursday night, the Alderwood Parks and Recreation Department offered their thanks to the Alderwood High School VICA Club for the success of the recent Harvest Dance. During the Harvest Dance VICA students served as hosts and hostesses and danced with the seniors who were in attendance. Board approves Perkins budget Thursday night, Alderwood School Board members approved the budget for the use of Perkins funds. Alderwood High School teacher Holly Ohler said the school district has received 97,276 in Perkins funds. She said the money will be used for a variety of things, including updating the software in the school's business labs, training counselors in career guidance and paying for field trips for the different vocational classes. Board approves contract for gifted and talented program The Alderwood School Board approved a contract between the school district and the University of Washington Center for the Study and Teaching of At-Risk Students (C-STARS). The contract will help provide support services and technical assistance for the district's Jacob K. Javits Gifted and Talented Students Education Program. The amount of the contract is 129,882, and the period of the contract is from Oct. 1, 2004 through Sept. 30, 2005"}
{"Id":"1101162505686","Title":"Masters of Mexican Music to take the stage at the Capitol","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"10/29/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"YAKIMA - The sounds of traditional Mexican music will fill the halls of the Capitol Theatre next weekend, as the Masters of Mexican Music bring the sounds of mariachi, marimba and tejano music to the stage. The Masters of Mexican Music is a collaboration of accomplished artists. In its first national tour, Masters of Mexican Music immerses audiences in the rich musical tradition of Mexico. The performances include Mariachi Los Camperos de Nati Cano, which will bring mariachi music to the stage; Jose Gutierrez y Los Hermanos Ochoa, who will perform musica jarocha style music; Mingo Saldivar y Los Cuatro Espadas, who will perform conjunto tejano music; and Marimba Chiapas, which will perform traditional marimba-style music. Mariachi Los Camperos de Nati Cano is a group led by Natividad Cano, who was born into a family of mariachi musicians in Ahuisculco, Jalisco, Mexico in 1933. It wasn't until he moved to Los Angeles that he founded the group Los Camperos, which he has been directing for more than 40 years. In 1990, Cano was honored by the National Endowment for the Arts with the National Heritage Fellowship and he has had the honor of performing for two presidents at the White House. Jose Gutierrez y Los Hermanos Ochoa is a group led by Jose Gutierrez Ramun, who was born in Costa de la Palma, Mexico. He spent his childhood listening to his grandfather, father and uncles play music for enjoyment after a hard day's work. As a small child he took up the guitar and soon learned to play the jarana, a thin-bodied guitar that provides the rhythmic and harmonic base for jarocha music. Mingo Saldivar y Los Cuatro Espadas is a group from San Antonio, Texas. The leader of the group, Saldivar, was born in Marion, Texas in 1936 and learned to play the guitar by the age of 12. It wasn't too long after taking up the guitar that Saldivar learned to play the stand-up base and a year later he took up the accordion. In May 2002, the Guadalupe Cultural Arts Center in San Antonio inducted Saldivar into the Conjunto Music Hall of Fame. Several weeks later he was named a National Endowment of the Arts National Heritage Fellow and later in 2002 he received his second Grammy nomination. Marimba Chiapas is a group led by Lorenzo Cruz, who was born in Tonal, Chiapas, Mexico in 1928. He was taught to play the marimba by Felipe Peoa. A marimba is constructed similarly to the xylophone and is often referred to as the \"Mexican piano.\" In 1973, Cruz moved to the United States, where he has continued to sustain the Mexican tradition of marimba music. Although the musical troupe that makes up the Masters of Mexican Music will perform Sunday, Nov. 7, at the Capitol Theatre, they will be in the Yakima Valley for three days performing at different locations. Saturday, Nov. 6, the troupe will perform at various outreach locations in the Valley, including a free performance at 2:30 p.m. at St. Joseph's Catholic Church in Alderwood. Later that night Jose Gutierrez y Los Hermanos Ochoa will perform at Radio KDNA's 25th anniversary celebration at the Yakima Convention Center. Monday, Nov. 8, Marimba Chiapas will work with students at Granger High School at 9:30 a.m. At 1 p.m. the same day Mariachi Los Camperos de Nati Cano will work with students at Grandview High School. Sunday's performance at the Capitol Theatre is scheduled to take place at 3 p.m. Tickets for the Masters of Mexican Music are currently on sale through the Capitol Theatre box office at (509) 853-ARTS and through radio KDNA in Granger at (509) 854-1900. Tickets for the event range in price from 5 to 30"}
{"Id":"1101162505920","Title":"Entertainment","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"10/29/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"1-Column to all children GOLDENDALE - From 1 to 4 p.m. this Sunday, Halloween, Maryhill Museum of Art visitors can participate in a traditional Mexican Dia de los Muertos (Day of the Dead) program. Featured activities will include musical performances by Los Temerosos and guest artists Armando Olveda and Cristina Acosta. There will also be traditional Mexican folk dancing, plus the Viva la Cultura performers. The Halloween program is open to all ages, and children under 17 will be admitted free with one paid adult. Sunday's event at the Goldendale area museum has been organized by Courtney Spousta, assistant director for student activities and multi-cultural programmer at the University of Portland. \"Bring your entire family for an afternoon of fun activity and exploration,\" said Carrie Clark, curator of education at the museum. \"Try your hand at painting your own papier-mache skull and watch folk dancing. \"It'll be a great day for families to learn about this tradition that honors ancestors with colorful art, food, music and altars,\" she added. The Dias de los Muertos has its roots in ancient Mexican traditions. Families share stories about their ancestral loved ones, prepare traditional foods, create elaborately decorated altars and creatures, play music and dance. Through the afternoon Sunday, the Hood River Mexican Folk Dance 4-H Club will demonstrate traditional Mexican dancing. Los Temerosos will perform traditional Mexican mariachi music, and Viva la Cultura will present folk tales through song, dance and acting. \"Alebrijes, or images and creatures from the realm of the dead, are also a large part of festivities,\" said artist Armando Olveda. He will show children how to make and decorate their own papier-mache fantasy skulls. All supplies will be provided free. Special Halloween treats will be provided by the Casa El Mirador restaurant in The Dalles and by Ayutla's Family Restaurant in Goldendale. Maryhill Museum of Art, a castle-like chateau overlooking the Columbia River, is located on Washington Scenic Route 14, just west of U.S. 97. General admission is 7. Get Lit festival ticket sales start next Monday SPOKANE - Individual tickets to one of the region's premier literary arts festivals, \"Get Lit,\" go on sale next Monday, Nov. 1, at all TicketsWest locations. Ticketed events include award winning poets Rita Dove and Robert Bly on April 17, 2005, satirical commentator David Sedaris on April 21, broadcast journalist Bob Edwards on April 22 and novelist Salman Rushdie on April 23. All shows will be held in Spokane's Metropolitan Performing Arts Center, except Edwards, who will appear in Showalter Auditorium on the campus of Eastern Washington University in Cheney. The seventh annual Inland Northwest Literary Arts \"Get Lit\" Festival will include more than 20 events in Spokane and Cheney during the seven-day festival. In addition to the four ticketed performances, the festival will feature readings by dozens of regional writers, children's events, writing workshops, literary panel discussions and youth poetry slams. Most events are free and all are open to the public. For more information about the \"Get Lit\" festival, schedules or tickets, visit the festival website: www.ewu.edu/getlit"}
{"Id":"1101162506170","Title":"Forum","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"10/29/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"1-Column Once again Alderwood is made to look like a joke to the rest of Yakima County. I am referring to the little poem by our local councilman, John Torch, in the latest editions of the Yakima Valley Business Times and the Alderwood Daily News. Mr. Torch, please start concerning yourself with city issues and quit bad mouthing agencies that don't agree with your sanctimonious views. Not all of Alderwood agrees with you. Maybe you should try working with the other agencies and stop with the \"If it's not my way, hit the hiway\" attitude. That attitude alone has cost the city in revenue dollars. No wonder people give our city a wide berth when it comes to relocating businesses and opportunities. And to Sue and Rob Rice, congratulations on your new business. It will definitely be a great asset to the Lower Valley. I wish you both nothing but success. /s/ Patty S. Denson, Alderwood Rockford great city manager I find it most interesting talking to citizens of Alderwood. The populace of Alderwood has so many opinions on so many subjects concerning our fine city. Recently, everywhere I go I hear people talking about the purchase of the Monson feedlot. Several people say the purchase was the right thing to do, but they should have bought the mill, too. Others say it was a waste to have bought it at all. Well, to me it doesn't matter. The smell of manure to me is much more refreshing than most of this perfume women wear. But if this community wants to move forward and not become stagnant as far as economic development goes, it was the right move. It seems as though being the city manager surely must be a thankless job. Tom Rockford has done more for this city as far as economic development goes than any manager in the last 20 years. He has grabbed the reins and led the way. I am not saying the others weren't good managers. The others were more appeasing type managers. It just seems to me that some groups of people in town want their projects done immediately. This city has fallen so far behind in the last decade that it will take time to get to where we should be. I personally think Rockford is a great manager and we will see some great movement forward with this city manager. But for you that don't, I am setting up a collection at the intersection of Sixth and Edison. Just throw your money in that manhole. I will collect the money and buy Rockford a magic wand! /s/ Don Padelford, Alderwood Image vs. character Recently, a contributor to this Forum column wrote in espousing the \"presidential charisma\" of candidate Kerry. He specifically referred to how well Mr. Kerry looked and acted in the third presidential debate. The writer seemed to be most impacted by the image Sen. Kerry portrayed. In this media saturated culture it seems that image is \"everything.\" Granted, looks are important but when it comes to picking a president for our nation we need to look beyond the pretty package. If we look back at two examples of previous presidents, we can point to glaringly stark contrasts. Remember Ronald Regan. What a gentleman. A man with rock-solid principles, a fantastic marriage and a man whose word was as good as his handshake. Even his enemies, such as Gorbachev, came to respect him. Contrast Reagan with Bill Clinton. Even before he won the presidency, a parade of \"bimbos\" gave witness to Clinton's marital indiscretions. Foreign leaders mocked him behind his back. As Commander in Chief, Clinton gutted the military. For example, he reduced active Air Force personnel from 650,000 to 240,000 people during his two terms. Many of the best officers voluntarily took early retirement rather than serve under a man they could not respect. And then to top it all, he lied in court and to the American people. His own state took away his license to practice law. So what does this have to do with the 2004 election? President Bush is a man of his word. He has principles and integrity. He stands for what he believes. Our military loves him as Commander in Chief. And he has a fantastic marriage. Then there's Sen. Kerry. Fresh from his four-month tour (others served one year) in Vietnam, he went before a Congressional hearing and confessed to war crimes while still a commissioned officer. Then he accused those he served with of crimes against civilians without one shred of evidence. He has voted against bills supporting new weapons and funding for the military. Yet, he claims that he has all the qualities to instill loyalty by our soldiers who daily lay their lives on the line to defend us from those who want to kill us and take our freedom. Give me a break! Finally, I want to remind my neighbors how ancient Israel's leader, David, was chosen. After all of Jessee's handsome sons had been paraded before Samuel, one little shepherd boy became one of the greatest kings in all history. When Samuel asked God why He chose David, God told Samuel that \"Men look on the outside (image) of a man, but the Lord looks on the heart (character) of a man.\" /s/ Rick Herndon, Alderwood Defending Kerry an attack on Vietnam veterans I was watching TV the other night when a representative from the Veterans Administration was asked whether Sen. John Kerry was telling the truth in 1971, or whether the \"Swift Vets for Truth\" were. This man said that John Kerry was telling the truth. I was shocked. My understanding is that even Kerry has said that he had no firm knowledge of atrocities to back up what he said back in 1971. He admits that he stretched the truth. So why would one of our representatives say that Kerry told the truth. I was in college in 1971 and I remember how hard it hit me when Kerry told those lies. I also remember that Congress was so upset by what Kerry had told them that they called in Telford Taylor from Columbia Law University in New York to investigate the atrocities being committed in Vietnam. You might recall that Taylor was the chief prosecutor during the War Crimes Trials in Nuremberg, Germany at the end of WWII. After Taylor's investigation he said that he found very few cases of true atrocities taking place in Vietnam. He did say that many times our soldiers had killed civilians, but in almost every case he investigated he found that it was not an atrocity at all. He said that these incidents were very sad and hard for soldiers to deal with, but they were not a crime according to the Geneva Convention. The civilians were just in the wrong place at the wrong time, and that the aim was not to kill the civilians just for the joy of it. In fact, most soldiers felt guilty for having killed innocent people during firefights. It was not their intent. In the end Taylor said the Rules of Engagement were impeccable. He said the Rules of Engagement were so impeccable that he found it difficult to believe that soldiers would follow them, as it would cost them their lives to do so. Taylor said that the way in which we fought the war caused many soldiers to lose their lives, in order that civilians would be spared theirs. And he said that he felt that was unacceptable during war. In the end he said the Vietnam War was the cleanest war that America had ever fought; that it had the fewest atrocities by any measure compared to other wars; and that he found a renewed sense of awe for those who were fighting the war, even though he was firmly against it. To my knowledge no one has disputed Taylor's assessment of the war with regards to war crimes having been committed by our troops, so why would one of our representatives say that Kerry was \"right\" back in 1971, referring to our fellow soldiers as war criminals? I think John Kerry threw gasoline on the fire back in 1971. He convinced people that Jane Fonda was right. And that caused the war protesters to harass the returning soldiers on college campuses at a higher level than what they had been doing before. I know, I was there. After Kerry spoke to Congress in 1971 it was very ugly for the veterans who were attending college and trying to further their education. In 1971 I remember watching (from afar) an anti-war rally on campus one day, and watched as the students cheered when it was announced how many returing Vietnam veterans had committed suicide after coming home. They truly wanted to see us dead. Their level of cruelty was more brutal than any acts by infantry soldiers that I had ever seen. The question remains: why doesn't John Kerry go on TV and debate these Swift Boat Veterans, and the POWs and the recipients of the Medal of Honor that have spoken out against him on TV ads? He could end this whole debate once and for all. He's a very good debater. He had the courage to debate George Bush, so why not do all Vietnam veterans a great favor and debate these men as well? They have proven to be honorable men, thus I would like him to step up to the plate and discuss this whole matter on national TV. That doesn't sound like much to me, especially if Kerry thinks he's right. I wish he would either defend himself against these veterans, or apologize for what he did. My view is that he needs to apologize for the lies he told, and the damage that those lies did to Vietnam veterans. And he especially needs to apologize to family members of those returning Vietnam veterans who committed suicide when they were unable to stand up to the attacks committed on them by their peers. It must be remembered that these veterans returned home physically fatigued, mentally fatigued and spiritually fatigued. They required nurturing, not the attacks hurled at them. But still today people come to the defense of John Kerry and encourage others to continue to attack our veterans. For any defense of John Kerry is an attack on those who honorably served in Vietnam, and who say that they are proud of their service in Vietnam, and who also say that they would serve again if asked. /s/ Greg Schlieve, Vietnam veteran, Grandview"}
{"Id":"1101162506405","Title":"No more drugs for these Mabton teens","Author":"Mel Sacher","Time":"10/28/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"MABTON - Whether it's wearing comfy pajamas to school or crazy socks, the signs of support for Red Ribbon Week have put smiles on the faces of Sarah Appling, Sophia Beltran and Angela Lupercio. The three Focus High School students have been instrumental in the development of Red Ribbon Week activities in the Mabton School District this year, designed to discourage drug use. The girls know what it is like to skip school, to get high and to drop out of school. In many ways it is what led them to Focus High School, an alternative school, which gave them a second chance at education. What they hope to do this year is convey a message, especially to the younger kids in the Mabton School District, that they don't need to do drugs. Appling said she knows of elementary school aged children who talk about doing drugs. \"That's the biggest problem in our community,\" Beltran added. The girls each had a chance to share their stories with elementary aged students Thursday morning. Skits were also performed. \"I think if they hear from us, being teenagers, it will make a difference,\" said Beltran. \"I know how little kids are. Little kids look up to us. We see ourselves and I don't want them to end up like me.\" \"We're showing them that getting high is not cool and we're showing them they don't have to do drugs,\" said Appling. The three girls, who are now back on the educational track, hope to prevent those younger than them from ending up in their situations. They hope that Red Ribbon Week activities will help the younger kids make good decisions in their lives. Beltran said that she can't go back to the regular high school. A senior at Focus, she dropped out of Mabton High and made a name for herself in the community, one that hasn't been easy to shake. \"People still look at me and think druggie and other things,\" said the former Miss Mabton. \"It's not like you can go back,\" she added. Learning from their teacher Stephen Busby, that \"opportunity dies when it is neglected,\" they took this opportunity to give other kids in the community a chance to start off right and not get involved with drugs and alcohol. The three girls came up with a list of ideas to promote Red Ribbon Week in Mabton. Students are dressing up, pledging to be drug free by signing bricks, which are making up a wall at the high school, and the younger students are participating in coloring, essay and poster contests. This morning multi-millionaire Rich Post will be speaking to the elementary aged students. According to Beltran, Post formerly sold drugs, was sent to jail twice but has changed his life. \"He's making his life doing something other than selling drugs,\" she added. This week the girls have each had a favorite project they have undertaken. Although it has been chilly, they all agreed that decorating the town with red ribbons has been fun. Appling has enjoyed gathering pledges to be drug free from high school students and handing out the red ribbons, as has Beltran. For Lupercio, the best part of the project was presenting ideas for activities to the youths at Artz-Fox Elementary School. \"They were all pumped,\" she said. Since their first visit to the school, Beltran said, younger kids have approached them on the streets, asking the girls to pick their classroom to be the winners of an ice cream party. \"I think it's important to get the message out,\" said Lupercio of Red Ribbon Week. \"A lot of the younger kids don't realize what they are doing when they get involved in drugs. It's been difficult, but fun"}
{"Id":"1101162506670","Title":"Legislative honors afforded Honeyford","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"10/28/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Washington State Sen. Jim Honeyford, a Republican from Alderwood, recently received two individual honors for his legislative efforts. The Washington Association of Vocational Administrators (WAVA) selected the 15th District lawmaker as its 2004 Legislator of the Year. The Washington State Farm Bureau also presented Honeyford with a certificate of commendation. Honeyford received the WAVA award at its fall conference in Pasco on Wednesday, Oct. 20. \"We appreciate Sen. Honeyford's support for the state's career and technical education system,\" said WAVA President Dennis Wallace. \"He has worked diligently for our concerns over the years and is an excellent spokesman for our programs. For people who are interested in career and technical education, Sen. Honeyford has always had an open door and has been willing to listen and discuss issues. He has always been a friend of career and technical education and he is very deserving of this award.\" \"Our vocational and technical colleges help produce skilled workers in many important areas of Washington's economy,\" said Honeyford, a former educator. \"They play an important and valuable role in both our economy and education system.\" In a letter sent to Honeyford about the state farm bureau's certificate of commendation, Dan Wood, the farm bureau's director of government relations wrote: \"This commendation is not based on voting record alone. It is awarded only to those few legislators who went above and beyond, demonstrating leadership on key bills and negotiations vital to our members.\" \"Agriculture has been and will always be a key part of my legislative district's economy and way of life,\" Honeyford said. \"Agriculture also continues to be one of the key industries in Washington's economy. As a fruit grower, I understand the needs and concerns of farmers and growers both in my region and throughout our state"}
{"Id":"1101162506905","Title":"Mabton School Board approves purchase of portable classroom","Author":"Jamie Smart","Time":"10/28/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"MABTON - In an effort to gain space for extra classrooms, the Mabton School Board approved the purchase of a portable unit during this past Monday's board meeting. The new unit will add two classrooms to the campus at the Mabton Jr.-Sr. High School building, giving math teachers Ron Fleming and John Durham regular classrooms, said Keith Morris, high school principal. He said both teachers are currently using non-classroom facilities within the district. Fleming's makeshift classroom is located within a room near the district bus garage and Durham is now utilizing the district board room as a classroom, Morris explained. Morris said the addition of staff and additional enrollment led to the need for extra classroom space. He said the new portable classroom will be used for junior high and high school math class instruction. The addition of the two classrooms will cost the district an estimated 100,000, said Mabton Superintendent Sandra Pasiero-Davis. She said the cost also includes such things as setting the unit upon a new foundation, and electrical and water needs. The unit will be situated at the south end of the high school parking lot and should be ready for use 10 weeks after the unit is ordered, Pasiero-Davis said. In other action taken at its Oct. 25 meeting, the board approved a safe school/healthy students agreement with Educational Services District 105. Pasiero-Davis said the agreement will provide case management services to the Mabton School District. The case manager will be housed in the Mabton School District and will work full time with Mabton students"}
{"Id":"1101162507155","Title":"Forum","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"10/27/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"1-Column Choose correctly Whether you vote for President Bush or not, be sure to do one thing get the facts straight. In this time of over exaggerated, slandering, political commercials, it's vital you understand where each candidate stands on the issues. Just because \"The Right\" overwhelmingly dominates Eastern Washington doesn't mean people shouldn't take the time to do some research. Expand your mind and think. Someone once said, \"Conservatism is sometimes a symptom of sterility. Those who have nothing in them that can grow and develop must cling to what they have in beliefs, ideas and possessions. The sterile radical, too, is basically conservative. He is afraid to let go of the ideas and beliefs he picked up in his youth lest his life be seen as empty and wasted.\" Be your own person and choose wisely. /s/ Eric Amador, Seattle, Alderwood High School class of 1995 Re-elect Bush When people look back at the Bush Administration in years to come, they will see that the No Child Left Behind Act was one of the most significant pieces of legislation signed into law in decades. Why? Because it puts educational standards into place for all students. This is especially important for low income and minority students, too many of whom have fallen through the cracks in our public education system over the years. Results are already showing up in our local school districts, as well as in other districts that have struggled across the country. As with so many other issues, President Bush is a noteworthy exception to the average politician. When he encounters a problem, his response is not to complain or blame someone else for the problem. His response is to try to solve the problem. We don't often have a president with the vision to lead in this fashion. But we can certainly keep this one for four more years. Please join me in voting to re-elect George W. Bush. /s/ Sandra Linde, Outlook Privatization at what cost? The proposal to privatize Alderwood's public works department raises some important issues. Having lived in an urban center on the west side of the state for several years, I had the opportunity to observe the performances of a number of agencies that chose to employ privatized service providers. Privatization was generally initiated by new management, often not long term residents of the locale, interested in trimming the budget. The tactic was to persuade the general public that eliminating such expensive items as decent living wages, cost of living allowances and health benefit packages would lower the cost of city and county services and provide a financial boost for the local economy. However, a major consideration was ignored: when a public works crew, like the one in Alderwood, dedicates a consistent work effort, shows concern for the needs of the public, and invests time and money in the community voluntarily, as residents, outside of the work schedule. The result is that not only do the new \"privatized\" employees fail to respond in a timely fashion to citizens' needs, but they are not invested in the community. So the quality of performance is heavily diminished. I would hope that the people of Alderwood are willing to carefully scrutinize the proposal to privatize the public works department. It would be, in my opinion, a major error in judgment. /s/ Sonja McDaniel, Alderwood The Little Council of S side (Related to The Little Red Hen) One day as the little Council of Alderwood was struggling, having issues with clean air, clean water and quality of life; \"This should be resolved,\" they said. \"Who will help us with this problem?\" \"Not I,\" said Yakima County. \"Not I,\" said Yakima Clean Air Authority. \"Not I,\" said New Vision. \"Then we will,\" said the Council of Alderwood. And they did. Soon, the need to measure and define the problem came. \"The problem is ripe,\" said the Council of Alderwood. \"Who will help us measure and define?\" \"Not I,\" said the Washington Dept. of Ecology. \"Not I,\" said the Washington Dept. of Agriculture. \"Not I,\" said the Washington Dairy Federation. \"Then we will,\" said the Council of Alderwood. And they did. When the issues were defined and partners were needed to help resolve, the Council of Alderwood said, \"Who will partner with us in this endeavor?\" \"Not I,\" said the Alderwood Port District. \"Not I,\" said the Alderwood Inc. board. \"Not I,\" said the Alderwood Chamber of Commerce. \"Then we will,\" said the Council of Alderwood. And they did. When the issue became political, the Council of Alderwood said, \"Who will help resolve these politics?\" \"Not I,\" said Dan Newhouse. \"Not I,\" said Bruce Chandler. \"Not I,\" said Jesse Palacios. \"Then we will,\" said the Council of Alderwood. And they tried. They addressed the issue to the press and asked for fair and balanced reporting. Then asked, \"Who will report the information fair and balanced?\" \"Not I,\" said the Dark Side News. \"Not I,\" said the Yakima Herald. \"Not I,\" said the Tri-Cities Herald. \"Then we will,\" said the Council of Alderwood. And they tried. They negotiated the deal, paid the costs, became their own partners and made it a win-win. \"Who will take the credit and benefit from this?\" \"Oh! I will,\" said the Port. \"Oh! I will,\" said the County. \"Oh! I will,\" said the State. \"No, no,\" said the Council of Alderwood. \"We will do that.\" AND THEY DID. /s/ John Torch, Alderwood Why buy a car? Recently, I went into a local automobile dealership in an attempt to trade-in my car. I didn't get a new car, but did get confused and somewhat shocked with the whole \"trading in your car\" business. I understand that a dealership needs to make money in order to have a viable business, but how much is too much? And at whose expense? Like many of your readers, I know the difference between the retail values and and the trade-in values. But it wasn't until my last negotiating attempts that I really grasped what it meant. Let's assume that a trade-in value for a car is 2,500 less than the retail value. Automobile dealerships will not typically pay more than the trade-in value of a car, which means they automatically make a 2,500 profit. Furthermore, the cars at dealerships are typically overpriced by an average of 4,000 (from what I have been told by friends in the car business). This means that if you trade in your car at the trade-in value rate and buy a car at the retail value, the dealership would make 6,500 in one deal. Imagine that! Now...imagine this happening to about 50 deals a month. That totals 325,000 in profits in one month. Automobile dealerships are out to take advantage of consumers. It's not like if consumers can just say to heck with it. The reality is, consumers need transportation to survive. The price that dealerships blindly force consumers to pay, however, is an outrage. Consumers, including myself, need to be thoroughly educated on the type of deals they are getting into. After all, it's not a well kept secret that cars are a bad investment. If you don't really need a new car, why reinvest into yet another money shortfall. /s/ Ana Gonzales, Grandview"}
{"Id":"1101162522623","Title":"Beyond The Norm-Mel","Author":"Mel Sacher","Time":"10/27/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Since the temperatures have dipped I have been experiencing the cold weather first-hand, not outside, but rather, inside my house. Knowing that a little work needed to be done on the furnace, my husband and I finally got around to calling the gas company to come turn on the gas this week. We called a repairman to come and look at our furnace and boy am I glad we did. My husband has been fighting the furnace since he bought the house nearly two years ago. Several repairmen have entered our lives, and it seems that running the furnace is now a more difficult task. They had it \"fixed\" on several occasions, but alas it was not. Besides having difficulty lighting the pilot light, the heater wouldn't stop blowing air last year. Well, we found a new repairman and he broke the bad news yesterday morning that our furnace has bit the dust. In fact, it probably should have been put out of its misery a few seasons ago. In the meantime, I am finding every blanket in my house to battle the dipping cold temperatures. I pray for cloudy nights so the cloud cover keeps the temperatures above freezing at night. The suggestion has been made that we get a space heater, but I'm afraid of burning the house down with one of those things. For any CSI watchers out there, my fears were confirmed with the last episode I watched when the crime scene investigators determined that the fire that put a man in jail was due to a space heater that over-loaded a breaker. We have a heating blanket, which is a wonderful thing. It keeps us cozy warm. Maybe a little too warm. I can only handle having my feet covered by the blanket. To stay warm, I have gone to the old fashioned way of keeping warm. I wear layers and layers of clothes. Sweats, sweatshirts, long underwear, thermal socks, whatever I can find. I cover the whole works with a blanket and call it good. My only complaint is my nose gets cold. Although it is chilly in the house, at least we have a solid roof over our heads, especially with the rains we have experienced lately. It really makes me think of those less fortunate and also of a project a group of college students have held in Alderwood the past three or four years. The 24-hour freeze event held by Washington State University Kappa Delta Chi sorority and Omega Delta Phi fraternity members collects food, clothing and blankets for local families. I haven't heard if the group plans on returning to the Lower Valley this fall for another \"freeze\" event, but I hope they do. I have heard of families in the Alderwood area who have resorted to using their kitchen oven to heat their homes. Heck, when I'm just tooling around the house, I have candles lit, which helps raise the house temperature. Watch for the freeze event or look for other groups that are gathering items for those less fortunate. Let's show the warmth in our hearts and make it a cozy time of year for everyone. . Mel Sacher can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or e-mail msacher@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101162522889","Title":"Guest Editorial","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"10/27/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"DON C. BRUNELL Selling change is always difficult, but when it involves public schools and our kids' education, it is daunting at best. Dr. Rod Paige is President Bush's Secretary of Education and the chief architect of \"No Child Left Behind.\" Surprisingly, he is the first superintendent of schools to hold that post. Paige's father was a public school principal, his mother a public school librarian. Born in 1933 in segregated Monticello, Mississippi, Paige earned a Bachelor's degree from Jackson State University and a Master's and Doctoral degree from Indiana University. Prior to joining the Bush Cabinet, he was superintendent of schools in Houston. Dr. Paige has a disarming style. For example, while in Seattle recently, he conducted a town hall meeting where teachers and activists confronted him over their frustrations with Washington's school reforms, the Washington Assessment of Student Learning (WASL), and \"No Child Left Behind.\" He listened carefully and thoughtfully responded. Most importantly, while he may have disagreed with the speaker, he respected their right to disagree. At the end of the evening, some of his antagonists continued to disagree with him and the school reforms he supports, but he commanded the respect due to a top federal education official. Dr. Paige told the audience that tests are necessary to evaluate a student's progress. For example, without a sphygmomanometer and stethoscope, there is no way to know if a person has high blood pressure and to monitor it to ensure that treatment is working. The same goes for education-you need tools and measurements to make informed decisions. Paige also believes test scores are a measure of where students have problems, and he rejects the notion of averaging school and district test scores as an indicator of progress. \"No Child Left Behind\" is not about averaging the scores of high performers and low achievers. It is about ensuring that kids don't fall through the cracks, passed from grade to grade unable to master the skills they'll need to succeed in the real world. For example, studies show that if a student cannot read proficiently after the third grade, their problems in school only compound. He encourages parents to read to their children and have their children read to them. \"No Child Left Behind\" also sets aside federal funds for tutoring students from low income and disadvantaged families. Dr. Paige reminded his audience that President Bush has increased education funding by nearly 60 percent since the Clinton Administration left office. He also was quick to point out that funding for K-12 is the state's responsibility and the federal government supplements, not supplants, that support. Finally, Paige unabashedly supports school choice and charter schools-highly unpopular with the teachers' union. He believes all students and parents should have choices, not just the families who can afford to send their children to private schools. Being on the front line, battling for change is a tough job even with less volatile issues, but Dr. Paige has handled his job well. Americans should be grateful there are dedicated educators like Paige because their persistence will keep our country competitive and full of opportunity. Like Gov. Locke, Education Secretary Rod Paige is convinced that education breaks down racial, cultural and poverty barriers. It is the great equalizer in our culture. Don C. Brunell is President of the Association of Washington Business"}
{"Id":"1101162523123","Title":"Moses Lake Christian swamps Knights, 7-2","Author":"Bob Story","Time":"10/27/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"MOSES LAKE - Imagine the surprise and the looks on the faces of the powerful Moses Lake Christian boys soccer team yesterday afternoon when they found themselves in a 1-0 hole just five minutes into the game against lowly Alderwood Christian. To the shock of the unbeaten and Central Washington 'B' League leading Moses Lake Christian club (8-0), Alderwood Christian senior Jordan Haak headed in a corner kick from his cousin, junior Matt Haak, for a goal to give the underdog Knights an early 1-0 lead. \"You start to think some pretty exciting things when you're ahead of Moses Lake just five minutes into the game,\" said Russ Smies, who's in his first year of coaching the Knights but is still looking for his first conference victory. The early shock Moses Lake Christian experienced quickly wore off, though. \"They went on a tear against us,\" said Smies. Three minutes after the Haak cousins combined their efforts to put Alderwood Christian ahead, the home team struck with a goal off the foot of Brendon McCornack. Moses Lake Christian then rattled off four more goals in the next 15 minutes to forge a 5-1 advantage. McCornack added a second goal in that four-goal run, with Jesse Bassett providing the other three. Another goal just before intermission from Phillip Friehe put Moses Lake up 6-1 at the half. \"They were ripping right through the middle,\" Smies said of the well oiled machine his Knights went up against yesterday. \"They pass the ball extremely well, they make precision cuts...they're very intense. \"It's obvious Moses Lake puts a lot of work into it. They're an amazing team. That's why they're leading the league,\" Smies added. The second half was a slightly different story. Moses Lake Christian could only find the net one more time, mostly to the stepped up play displayed by the visiting Knights. \"They subbed a bit towards the end of the game,\" said Smies, \"But we definitely turned it up in the second half.\" Smies credits the Haak cousins for most of the increased intensity after intermission. \"The two of them were working very well together in the second half,\" he said. \"They had some very nice give-and-gos,\" he added. The sparkling teamwork paid off for the Knights in the 15th minute of the second period. The older Haak swept in a pass from senior Micah Koopmans, sped down the field while juking a couple of defenders and cleanly booted in a goal to cut Moses Lake's lead to 6-2. Moses Lake's John Townsend countered the score in the 68th minute of the game with a goal of his own to account for the final 7-2 score. Alderwood Christian actually had a couple of golden opportunities to cut into Moses Lake's lead even more. Unfortunately for the visitors, two wide open shots taken by the younger Haak careened off the top bar of the Moses Lake goalpost. \"After awhile, you kind of scratch your head and wonder when the shots are going to start going in the net for you,\" Smies said. \"It gets to be frustrating after awhile.\" All in all Tuesday afternoon, Moses Lake Christian only outshot the Knights by a 13 to 9 margin. Alderwood goalkeeper John Bosma was credited with six saves. The Knights (0-8, 5-10), who have already been eliminated from the postseason, close out the season this coming Friday at home against Trout Lake"}
{"Id":"1101162523405","Title":"Obituaries","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"10/27/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"PAID OBITUARY BERTHA CURFMAN Bertha Curfman, 100, of Alderwood passed away Sunday, Oct. 24, 2004, at Hillcrest Manor in Alderwood. She was born Bertha Bates in Oklahoma s Indian Territory in 1904 to cotton farmers. Bertha moved with her family to Clayton, New Mexico, where her father filed for a homestead adjacent to the Curfman family, which she later married into. The Santa Fe Trail divided the two homesteads. On Christmas day 1921 she was married to Clarence Curfman. They moved to Washington in the early 1930s during the Great Depression. Drought drove them from New Mexico. Curfman s family located in the Outlook area in 1939. They leased 160 acres of Indian land for a dairy and later an egg business. After her husband s death in 1972, Bertha moved into Alderwood, where she has made her home until the time of her death. She is survived by her daughter, Bemma Lue Floyd and husband Clair; her three sons, Clifton Curfman and wife, Avis, Melvin Curfman and wife, Charlotte and Troy Curfman and wife, Kathleen; 16 grandchildren; 41 great-grandchildren and 17 great-great-grandchildren. She was preceded in death by her husband, Clarence; and one son, Wilford. Viewing and visitation will be held, Thursday, Oct. 28, 2004, from 2 to 7 p.m. and Friday, Oct. 29, 2004, from 8 a.m. until the time of the funeral service at 2 p.m. at Wells Funeral Home, Alderwood. Burial will follow at Alderwood Cemetery, Alderwood. Wells Funeral Home is in charge of arrangements. Those wishing to honor Bertha s memory may contribute to the American Cancer Association. THEODORE C. WRIGHT JR. Theodore (Ted) C. Wright Jr., 57, of Kent passed away Friday, Oct. 22, 2004, at Regional Hospital in Buren after a hard fought battle with various health complications. He was born Feb. 21, 1947 in Yakima to Theodore and Pearl Wright, who both had been residents of Alderwood. He attended Pasco High School, where he lettered in track. He retired early after working for Boeing for more than 30 years. He was an avid bowler and a pool player, earning numerous trophies. He was a long-time member of the Moose Lodge and the Eagles Lodge while earning awards on the rituals team. Ted was a big Seattle sports fan and spent many a night enjoying professional wrestling. He is survived by his mother, Pearl C. Wright; two sons, Clifford Wright and Troy Wright; two grandchildren, Makenzi Wright and Kennedi Wright; two sisters, Jolene Sandwick and Kathleen Johnson; and numerous other relatives and friends. He was preceded in death by his father, Theodore C. Wright Sr. You could hear him say with playful conceit as he struts through the gates, The good lookin one is here! A graveside service will be held Thursday, Oct. 28, 2004, at noon at Mountain View Cemetery in Auburn. There will be a small banquet following the service at the Church of the Nazarene at 1225 29th St. S.E., Auburn, WA 98002"}
{"Id":"1101162523701","Title":"JV Grizzlies gridders score second win of season","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"10/26/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"A strong defensive showing by the Alderwood High School JV football team propelled the Grizzlies to an 8-6 victory over Ellensburg's junior varsity yesterday. The win was the Alderwood JV's second of the season. \"It was a good defensive game on our part,\" said Alderwood JV Coach Saul Martinez. \"I can't really single out any one player on defense. It was a great group effort.\" Ellensburg opened a 6-0 lead on the JV Grizzlies with a first quarter touchdown. The score remained the same until the second half got underway. In the third quarter, Alderwood squared the contest at 6-6 on a 64-yard touchdown pass from Jaime Sambrano to Brandon Coleman. He had eight receptions in Monday's game for 125 yards. Sambrano finished the night with 143 aerial yards on 10-of-18 passing. Later in the third period, Alderwood scored the game winner when defensive end Brandon Esperson sacked Ellensburg's quarterback in the end zone for a 2-point safety. \"Our entire line rushed on the play,\" said Martinez. \"Brandon charged in and got the sack.\" Offensively for Alderwood, playing on its home field last night, B.J. Miller led all rushers in the game with 139 yards on 24 carries. Monday's victory upped the Alderwood JV's record on the year to 2-4-1. The Grizzlies close out the season next Monday at home against Selah's junior varsity"}
{"Id":"1101162523936","Title":"Cantu, Villanueva each score three TD's in win over Bulldogs","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"10/26/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"ELLENSBURG - Getting three touchdowns apiece from Joseph Villanueva and Adrian Cantu, the Alderwood High School freshman football team rolled to a 53-0 victory over Ellensburg's freshmen Monday afternoon. Alderwood improved to 6-2 on the season with the resounding win. Cantu scampered 31 yards in the second half on a TD run, and also tossed two touchdown passes earlier in the game-the first a 5-yarder to Frank Salcedo and the second a 66-yarder to Nathan Cornelius. He completed 5-of-8 passes in the game for 120 yards, and Cantu also rushed for 61 yards on three totes. Villanueva, who led all rushers with 158 yards on 11 carries, had two touchdown runs, the longest a 49-yard burst into the end zone. He also returned an interception 30 yards for a TD. Alderwood's Jesse Montelongo also inflicted some damage on Ellensburg. He broke off a 42-yard touchdown run in the first quarter and picked up a fumble in the third quarter, returning it 56 yards for a score. Montelongo tallied 51 yards rushing the ball, coming on just three touches. Jason Martinez also gained 21 rushing yards for Alderwood on three carries. Alderwood Coach Glenn Braman said his defensive squad only forced Ellensburg into one punting situation all night long. \"They had the ball for a lot of the game,\" Braman said. \"Our defense bent but we didn't break,\" he said of the shutout"}
{"Id":"1101162524217","Title":"Mabton drill team is made up of 11 hard working girls","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"10/26/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"MABTON - Not everyone who takes to the football field during a game is wearing a football jersey and shoulder pads. The Mabton Junior/Senior High School drill team is at every home football game during the season, marching out on the field to entertain the crowd with their halftime performances. The drill team is made of 11 hard working girls who find time to practice every day, be if for an hour and half before school or for two hours in the evening. Drill Team Advisor Connie Beeman said her team practices whenever they can find time and wherever there is room. She explained that during the busy winter sports season, the team will typically practice in the school library. This marks the third year Mabton has had a drill team in nearly a decade. Beeman said three years ago a group of girls created a list of names of people who would be interested in being part of a drill team and from there the program blossomed. Beeman said she has been the drill team advisor for the past two years. Recently there has been so much interest in joining the team that members are selected through tryouts. Beeman said this year 48 girls tried out for the team. According to Beeman, tryouts take place over a two-week period. She said those who are interested in being on the team are each taught a basic turn, a basic leap and a short routine. Then on tryout night, the girls come out three at a time and show the judges what they have learned. Once the girls make it through the rigorous two-week tryout period, their work is just beginning. Beeman said this year the team attended a camp in Portland, Ore. hosted by the Thunderbird Dance Company. She said the Mabton team attended the more advanced camp and came away with 11 routines and several trophies. The routines the girls learned at camp are slowly finding their way onto the field at Mabton High School. When they are not using a routine they learned at camp, Beeman said the team works together to choreograph their own moves. She said when choreographing the team will split up into groups led by one of the four team captains, then each group will make up eight counts of a routine. The multiple eight counts are then linked together to form a new routine. Beeman said her team is branching out this year when it comes to the types of routines they are taking on. She explained that besides doing routines to hip-hop music, the team is doing more themed routines. She said they have a Western routine they do, as well as a 1970s routine and a routine involving boy bands. \"We want to touch all sorts of groups,\" Beeman said. She added that her team is comprised of hard working girls, noting that she recently asked the girls if they wanted to take a short break between football and basketball season and the answer she got back was a resounding no. Instead, the drill team is practicing three days a week and Saturdays for four hours to prepare for the upcoming basketball season. An interesting aspect of the drill team is that its members are composed of not only high school students, but also several junior high school students. Erica Calixto, an eighth grader, said she decided last year that she wanted to try out for the drill team. \"I like to dance,\" Calixto said. She said she also likes the feeling of getting out in the middle of the football field or the center of a crowded gym and dancing. Beeman said she is hoping that the more her team performs and the more competitions and camps they are able to attend, the more people will be interested in joining the drill team"}
{"Id":"1101162524451","Title":"Nethercutt's wife stumps for votes in Alderwood","Author":"Mel Sacher","Time":"10/25/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"On the campaign trail for her husband, Mary Beth Nethercutt stopped in Alderwood Friday afternoon to speak to a group of women about farming, finance and women's issues. Nethercutt's husband, Congressmen George Nethercutt, is seeking Patty Murray's position in the U.S. Senate. Mrs. Nethercutt, said her husband is standing on his voting record that has been positive for Washington state, which includes supporting farmers and supporting the dams when the push was to remove them. \"He's also in favor of an energy policy,\" said Mrs. Nethercutt. \"Our current senator has voted against a common sense energy policy.\" She said that her husband has been able to reach across party lines and work with both Republicans and Democrats alike to accomplish things that are good for the country. \"You can't get everything you want, but if you can get 75 or 80 percent, then that's good,\" said Nethercutt. She said her husband's opponent has repeatedly voted to filibuster, which keeps debate on a topic from ending so that even a preliminary vote can't get to the Senate floor. The judges nominated by President Bush is one of the issues that hasn't been voted on. \"Approve or disapprove, but at least vote on it,\" she said. \"George has a great voting record. He's got a great record on the issues,\" she said. Unfortunately, she added, a lot of bills come out of the House and are \"...buried in the graveyard of the Senate.\" Besides stem cell research, Nethercutt said her husband is in favor of drilling in the Arctic. She said that when super-imposed over the continental United States, Alaska covers about 1/3rd of the country. She explained that when they talk about drilling they are only talking about touching 2,000 acres of 19 million acres of pristine wilderness. \"Until we have energy independence we are going to be held hostage at the fuel pumps,\" said Nethercutt. The South Carolina native added that her husband supported the dams in Washington state when there was a push to remove them. George Nethercutt has also been instrumental in working with the Bush administration to develop a research facility at Washington State University that would be able to test for Mad Cow Disease, she said. \"The next closest facility is in Iowa,\" said Mrs. Nethercutt. She added that her husband is also in favor of capping the amount that can be paid out for pain and suffering in lawsuits against doctors in the state. She said that Washington is losing talented physicians and it is not only the rural communities that are feeling the brunt of the shortage. At a rally in Spokane last week, she said a woman who is due to have a baby in February spoke about her needs of a obstetrician. She shared that this is her third child and third obstetrician, the others have left the state. Nethercutt said that she is hoping her doctor will still be practicing when her baby is due. \"Doctors are worried about being sued,\" said Nethercutt. \"They will run more tests than their heart or mind tells them they should, and that drives up costs.\" One of the most frustrating aspects of the election is the incumbent senator's reluctance to debate the issues. She said her husband invited Patty Murray to debate in each of the counties in the state. Murray agreed to two debates, said Mrs. Nethercutt. Both were also invited to the Downtown Seattle Rotary Club for a debate, but only Nethercutt attended, because Murray said her schedule was too busy, said Mrs. Nethercutt. She added that when Nethercutt went up against Speaker of the House Tom Folley, there were nine debates. Minority Leader Tom Daschle participated in seven debates. \"There must be a reason she doesn't want to talk about her voting record,\" said Mrs. Nethercutt"}
{"Id":"1101162524686","Title":"Grizzlies say goodbye to 2004 playoff picture","Author":"John Panni","Time":"10/25/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"ELLENSBURG - The Alderwood High School football team had its postseason hopes dashed this past Friday night at Ellensburg with a 20-0 loss to the Bulldogs. But despite postseason aspirations having to wait another season, Alderwood Coach Mark Marro is hoping his team can muster up some pride as the Grizzlies will try to finish with a winning season. Alderwood (2-3, 4-4) will finish Mid-Valley League play this Friday at Selah. The Grizzlies will then end the regular season at home the following week against the fifth seed out of the Central Washington Athletic Conference. The shutout loss to the Bulldogs has more of a story than the final score might indicate. \"We played with a lot of young guys,\" said Marro. \"They (Ellensburg) got a gift.\" Due to injuries and other reasons, Marro had to go into Ellensburg with several of his younger players, who aren't used to performing at this level. \"Overall, I thought we played phenomenal,\" said Marro. \"We were thin, but we played hard.\" Grizzly fans might be inspired by the fact that Ellensburg led the game just 7-0 with about four minutes to go. One performance that stood out for Alderwood on Friday was the play of B.J. Miller, who played safety with a cast on his hand. Marro said the Grizzly offense was able to put together several offensive threats throughout the game, driving down inside Ellensburg's 20-yard line on a couple of occasions, but could never finish off a drive. \"We had our shots at it,\" said Marro. The offense was a bit troubled with the absence of one of its stars, Greg Gilleland. Gilleland had to miss the game after an altercation during Homecoming with Wapato. The duties in the backfield were mainly left to Joe Schwartz. \"Schwartz ran the ball hard, but it is hard when you are by yourself,\" said Marro. Marro said his defense did well on Friday. He said his defensive line was pounding Ellensburg. \"The linebackers did a really good job,\" said Marro. Marro is looking forward to this Friday's game at Selah. The Vikings have a new addition to their coaching staff this season in former Greyhound head coach Wayne Purdom, who is heading up the defense. \"Selah is a lot like us,\" said Marro. \"They throw the ball minimally and they just run the ball at you.\" Marro said the Grizzlies should be at full force next week with everyone in the line-up. \"Now it is about pride,\" said Marro"}
{"Id":"1101162539108","Title":"Turnovers cost Mabton in loss to 1A Highland","Author":"Bob Story","Time":"10/25/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"COWICHE - Five turnovers were too much to overcome for the Mabton High School football team last Friday night. The Class 'B' Vikings, playing up a division against the Highland Scotties, ended up dropping the non-league game by a 27-7 count. Mabton Coach D.J. Search said his team can't expect to win a game coughing up the ball that many times, especially when they're playing a Class 'A' team. \"We had five fumbles and lost three of them,\" Search said. \"You throw in the two interceptions...well, it was too much for us to come back from.\" It appeared from the outset that Mabton was going to give the Scotties all they could handle. On the opening drive of the game, which started from their own 20, the Vikes marched the ball down to Highland's 42-yard line, from where Mabton QB Ryan Harris hooked up with Pablo Sanchez on a touchdown throw. \"That was big,\" said Search. \"It was an excellent start.\" Highland countered, though, on the ensuing drive. Jacob Buchanan, who led all rushers in the game with 163 yards, capped off the Scotties' opening drive with a 21-yard scamper into the end zone. The PAT that followed squared the contest at 7-all. The Scotties scored again in the opening quarter, when Highland's punt return squad burst through Mabton's line and blocked the kick. Highland recovered the loose pigskin in the end zone for its second TD of the night. Highland took a 20-7 lead in the second quarter when one of its defenders picked off a pass from Harris and raced 48 yards to pay dirt. The only other score Highland could muster against the Vikings was a one-yard TD run by Buchanan, that coming in the third quarter. Despite Buchanan, who is the Valley's 1A rushing leader this season, gaining 163 yards on the ground on 29 carries, Search felt his club did an admirable job against the scatback type runner. \"Our defensive line actually did a pretty good job Friday,\" Search said. \"There were seven times we tackled Buchanan in the back field.\" Search also pointed out that his defensive unit limited Highland's quarterback to just 27 aerial yards, on 6-of-10 passing. Offensively, Mabton moved the ball at a better clip than did the Scotties. The Vikings gained 207 offensive yards, compared to Highland's 197 total yards. Most of the Mabton yardage came on the ground. Alex Zavala was the Vikes' leading rusher, picking his way through the Highland defenders for 67 yards on 15 totes. Ray Elizondo added a 33-yard rushing performance for the Vikes on eight carries, and Sanchez tallied 26 yards on nine touches. Through the air, Harris threw for 75 yards on 3-of-14 passing. Search gives much of the credit for Mabton's offensive prowess to his offensive line. \"They played pretty well,\" he said of his linemen. The bottom line, though, was turnovers. Any time Mabton got something started, the Scotties somehow came away with a takeaway. In looking ahead to this coming Friday's game at home against Soap Lake, Search said his team will have to play assignment defense to shut down the visitors. \"Soap Lake is a lot like Manson,\" he said. \"They play a Wing-T offense, where there's lots of misdirection and they pull their guards a lot.\" Search said a victory over Soap Lake this coming Friday, coupled with a win at Entiat the following Friday, will give his Vikes (4-2, 5-3) the No. 2 seed into the South/Central 'B' League playoffs"}
{"Id":"1101162539420","Title":"Briefs","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"10/22/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"1-Column Parent info center schedules two family math nights Alderwood's new Parent Information and Resource Center has planned two fun nights for local families that will focus on improving mathematic skills. The first will be Monday, Oct. 25, at the center, located at 800 E. Custer Ave. The 6:30 to 8 p.m. fun night is open to the families of students attending Harrison Middle School, Alderwood High School and PRIDE High School. Luz Fajardo-Rodriguez, one of the organizers, said families will be shown fun, family math activities they can use at home. Also to be presented is information on learning how to work with schools and teachers. She said there will also be snacks and fun activities designed for the entire family. A second fun night will be held at the Alderwood resource center on Tuesday, Oct. 26, from 6:30 to 8 p.m. That night is reserved for families of students attending Chief Kamiakin, Pioneer and Outlook elementary schools. Flu shotsfor military vetson tap for Nov. 10 Jonathan M. Wainwright Memorial VA Medical Center staff members will be at the Alderwood VFW post Wednesday, Nov. 10, to give flu shots to military veterans. Veterans are asked to bring their VA identification card or military discharge DD214 form as a form of proof of military service. The flu shots will be given to veterans based on guidelines issued by the Centers for Disease Control. Those who are eligible for the vaccinations include veterans 65 years of age and older, all veterans who suffer froma chronic medical condition and female veterans who are pregnant during this winter's flu season. The vaccinations will be given on Nov. 10 from 9:30 a.m. to 4 p.m. at the local VFW post, located at 615 North Avenue"}
{"Id":"1101162539655","Title":"Robert Simms to open Community Concert Series","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"10/22/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Robert Simms, the first performer in the 2004-05 Lower Valley Community Concert Series, will be singing African American spirituals, as well as Broadway show stoppers on Thursday, Nov. 4, at 7 p.m. in the Alderwood High School auditorium. Simms, a Gold Medal winner of the Enmark American Traditions Competition, has been hailed by critics for his \"rich luxuriant tone,\" \"energetic performances\" and \"convincing stage presence.\" He has performed at the Smithsonian Institute, the Los Angeles African-American Museum, Grace Cathedral in San Francisco, the Chicago Historical Institute, and at many colleges and universities throughout the United States. Season tickets for the 2004-05 Community Concert Series, hosted by the Lower Valley Community Concert Association, will be available at the door. This year's series includes Wells & Adams, a cello and guitar duet on Jan. 16, 2005; Westwind Brass, a brass quintet on Feb. 28, 2005; Alpin Hong, pianist, on March 22; and Baroque Northwest, April 16. Season adult tickets are 40, student tickets are 15 and family tickets (two adults, two students) are 85. One night performance tickets for the Simms concert are 25 each. The doors will open at 6:30 p.m., 30 minutes prior to the concert. For further information about this concert or the 2004-05 series, call 786-3070 or 837-7054"}
{"Id":"1101162539889","Title":"Entertainment Briefs","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"10/22/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"1-Column Liberty Quartet in concert Nov. 7 WEST VALLEY - The \"Liberty Quartet\" will appear in concert Sunday, Nov. 7, at the West Valley Church of the Nazarene. Described as an outstanding Southern Gospel group, the quartet will perform at 6 p.m. in the church sanctuary, located at 72nd and Nob Hill Boulevard. A love offering will be collected during the concert, which is open to the public. Frisbee tourneyon tap Oct. 30-31 PASCO - Frisbee enthusiasts are being urged to watch the action at the fifth annual \"Hanford Howl Ultimate Frisbee Tournament.\" The two-day event will be held at the Tri-Cities Youth Soccer Association fields, near the TRAC facility in Pasco. It is being sponsored by the Tri-Cities Visitor and Convention Bureau, Desert Lorax and the Tri-Cities Ultimate Frisbee Club. Competition will take place between 9 a.m. and 5 p.m. on Saturday, Oct. 30, and from 9 a.m. to 3 p.m. on Sunday, Oct. 31. Generally, four games take place simultaneously. The final championship tournament will be staged Sunday afternoon. For extra flavor, competing teams will don Halloween costumes in keeping with the theme, \"Hanford Howl.\" The two-day tournament will involve teams from across the Pacific Northwest. At least 300 people are expected to compete. \"Events such as these are not only fun, they benefit the community since proceeds from this tournament are donated to charity,\" said Kris Watkins, president of the Tri-Cities Visitor and Convention Bureau. Sally McFarlane, the tournament's publicity coordinator, is encouraging the public to attend, at no charge, and learn more about the sport of Ultimate Frisbee. \"It's a fast paced team sport that combines the elements of soccer, football and basketball. Players try to pass the Frisbee down the field into an end zone to score goals,\" said McFarlane. \"Generally, there are seven players on each coed team, four men and three women,\" she continued. \"A very unique aspect of the Ultimate Frisbee sport is the fact that the game is played without referees or officials. It requires the players to call their own fouls and relies on what is called the 'spirit of the game,\" a concept that promotes competitive play but not at the expense of sportsmanship"}
{"Id":"1101162540123","Title":"Governor reappoints Matson to state economic board","Author":"John Panni","Time":"10/22/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Alderwood Port Commissioner Jeff Matson was recently appointed to a group that has a lot of economic pull within the state. Washington state Gov. Gary Locke announced earlier this month the reappointment of Matson to the state's Community Economic Revitalization Board (CERB). \"The legislature funds the board in varying amounts,\" said Matson. The point of the economic revitalization board is to help economically distressed areas across the state. Matson said the economic revitalization board is funded to the tune of 5 to 10 million every biennium. The board lends economic support to such entities as port districts and counties looking for help with funding projects. Matson has served two previous terms on the board. His current term will expire Sept. 2, 2007. The board currently has 19 people from different fields around the state serving, with one vacancy. Matson is also the current vice chair of the group. Toppenish resident Judy Boekholder serves as board chair. Miland Walling of Bickleton is a small business representative on the group. Rep. Dan Newhouse of Alderwood is one of the state officials serving on the agency board. Matson first became involved with the CERB board while attending some meetings representing the Port of Alderwood. Matson said CERB had helped fund some projects for the local port district. \"I was aware of the value of it,\" said Matson. \"I pretty much knew it was a good program before I got on board.\" Matson said a position opened on CERB to represent the port districts and he grabbed the opportunity. Matson opted to seek another term on the board because he enjoys and believes in what the group is doing. \"I enjoy working with the projects and see what is going on,\" said Matson. Matson said it is rewarding to see how the CERB program has helped communities prosper. The board members meet six times a year with most of the gatherings occurring at Sea-Tac. Matson said between three and four projects are funded at each meeting. Over the years, CERB has helped fund many successful economic development projects. But some of the most successful projects Matson has been involved with came in 1998. Matson said Gov. Gary Locke recognized the need to improve transportation infrastructure to help attract businesses. Matson said many cities across the state took advantage of the opportunity provided by the state to make improvements. The Port of Alderwood and the City of Prosser received money to make improvements to Midvale Road and Wine Country Road, respectively. CERB has also helped the Port of Alderwood with funding for improvements to its wastewater treatment plant. The CERB program is going really well right now, said Matson. \"We have a pretty good funding base for the next couple of years,\" said Matson. Matson said locally there are no projects he knows of that will come before CERB in the near future. But, he added, \"It would surprise me if we didn't have any come up.\" One part Matson enjoys is the diversity of the group. Matson said the group is well represented by Eastern Washington people. However, Matson said the west vs. east side of the mountain politics never comes into play. \"It is a pretty good group of people,\" said Matson. \"It is a good program"}
{"Id":"1101162540358","Title":"Spring Fling evolving into a 10-day festival","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"10/22/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"GRANGER - Spring Barrel tasting may be more than six months away, but area chambers of commerce are already starting to look ahead to the annual event as they makes plans for the next Spring Fling festival. Thursday afternoon, Alderwood Chamber of Commerce Director of Promotions and Tourism Kathy Corliss talked to members of the Granger Chamber of Commerce about the 2005 event and the work that is already going into it. Corliss said Spring Fling is an event that has brought together chambers of commerce from Wapato to Benton City. She explained that the Yakima Valley chambers are working together to organize a 10-day festival that will attract those who are visiting the area for Spring Barrel tasting to stay and enjoy what the Valley has to offer. Corliss said since the inception of Spring Barrel tasting, the event has grown to such a magnitude that area wineries are beginning to expand, what was once a one weekend event, into a two weekend affair. She said wineries found that as Spring Barrel tasting grew they weren't able to spend the one-on-one time with their customers. Now, wineries are beginning to invite their VIP customers to attend a pre-barrel tasting event the weekend before. And it's that expansion of Spring Barrel tasting that the local chambers are trying to build on. Corliss explained that local businessman Tom Denlea, who recently opened the Best Western Grapevine Inn in Alderwood, brought the idea of a Valley-wide festival to the forefront after observing the Tulip Festival that takes place every year in the Skagit Valley. Corliss said Denlea noted that the communities in that area worked together to fill the 13 days of the Tulip Festival with a variety of activities. \"So when people are in town for the Tulip Festival, they have something to do that isn't necessary tulip [related],\" Corliss said. She added that as a result of the combined efforts the festival brings 16 million in tourism revenue into the Skagit Valley. She said the Spring Fling festival can serve as a way for the communities in the Yakima Valley to take advantage of the many visitors who come into the area for Spring Barrel tasting. Corliss admitted that when planning for the festival first started, the different communities involved were a little territorial. However, as time has gone by the communities have realized that working together is what is important when it comes to making the festival a success. \"It has been a great process,\" Corliss said. At this point, Corliss said the group of chambers involved in coordinating the Spring Fling festival are working on preparing the calendar of events. She encouraged any organization interested in putting together an event to come forward. \"We're excited about it,\" she said, noting that the event is already starting to see growth. Other business that took place during the Granger Chamber of Commerce meeting yesterday included the presentation of a check to the Granger Aquatics Committee. Chamber President Mary Kresse presented a check for 500 to the committee, challenging 10 other people to donate 100 each, which two members did. To date, the Granger Aquatics Committee has raised 5,860 toward a new pool facility for the community. To help raise additional funds, the committee is hosting a yard sale at the Lions Club building at 109 E. A St. in Granger, Saturday, Oct. 23, from 7 a.m. to 5 p.m. Donations for the yard sale are being accepted at the site from noon to 5 p.m. today (Friday"}
{"Id":"1101162540623","Title":"Guest Editorial","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"10/22/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"FRANKIE POTTS A week ago the wrinkles fell right off my face, leaving it as smooth as a baby's behind. Good news, right? Wrong! For one thing, those frown and laugh lines disappeared from only one side of my face. And the second and biggest reason this wasn't some blessing from the Youth Goddess is that the \"eraser\" was Bell's Palsy. That name was familiar to me, but I didn't know it was a virus that hops onto the 7th cranial nerve and stomps the life out of the facial muscles that nerve controls. But I know it now. And have found out a lot of other people know it, too. Everyone who has seen my new paralyzed look has either had Bell's Palsy or knows someone who has had it. It is no respecter of age-12-year-olds are no more exempt than 40s, 50s or people like me who recently smiled through a wonderful 70th birthday party my kids threw for me. Bell's Palsy leaves us all with saggy, droopy, lopsided faces that can smile on only one side. Then there's that one, wide-open, glaring eye that not only can't shut, but can't even blink. It's not a pretty sight. And, it easily strikes terror into children, as I found out when I visited an ophthalmologist to learn how to protect my eyesight during this \"new experience.\" This kid in the office-about nine years old, couldn't take his horrified gaze off my taped-shut eye and hound dog look. Evidentally he'd been raised to be polite because he really tried not to look. Rather than ignore his obvious curiosity or bore him with medical details, I just grinned a gargoyle smile at him and said, \"I'm ready for Halloween.\" It gave him a laugh. Better than screaming. Bell's Palsy has thrown a crimp in my plans for getting acquainted in Alderwood. I moved here in mid-September, and wanted to drop in on a Kosmos meeting for people over 50. Somehow this isn't the face I wanted to introduce to a group I've heard good things about. Even if I can now do a pretty good imitation of one-eyed Popeye the Sailor Man, they probably aren't ready for me. Driving is too difficult, anyway. A good looking, over-50 guy I talked to this week took a bolder approach than I'm managing to do. He said he's had this virus twice, once when he was 25 and again about seven years ago. He said he bought an eyepatch at Bi-Mart, slapped it on and continued to play a great game of darts. I told him he must have looked very debonair. \"...and gallant,\" he added, with a grin (on both sides of his face). It's inspiring to see and hear about people who have recovered in weeks or months, less hopeful to hear \"years\" or \"never.\" In a recent article, I read that Theresa Heinz Kerry, 62-year-old wife of presidential hopeful John Kerry, was asked about her rumored Botox injections. She not only admitted to them, but said it was almost time for another treatment. Looking at her smooth forehead and baby-butt-cheeks, I'd say she was good for one more campaign trail. If I understood my ophthalmologist correctly, Botox does the same thing Bell's Palsy does, but on a mini-scale. So, unlike Mrs. Kerry who is looking forward to her next smooth 'em out injections, I am eagerly awaiting my 7th cranial nerve's rejuvenation and the return of all my frown and laugh lines. Bring on the wrinkles. I want them. I need them. Hey-I earned 'em! Besides, I can kiss better when both sides of my mouth are working. . Frankie Potts is a retired journalist who spent her career working at numerous newspapers throughout the state of Washington"}
{"Id":"1101162540858","Title":"Lady 'Hounds leave Wildcats scoreless","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"10/22/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"GRANDVIEW - Grandview came out of the gate on fire Thursday night, scoring the first of two goals against Toppenish in the first few seconds of the game. The goal would ultimately help the Lady 'Hounds defeat the Wildcats, and get them one step closer to postseason play. The Grandview girls soccer team won over the Wildcats 2-0. The game marked senior night for the Lady 'Hounds and their last game of the regular season under the hot lights of the football stadium. Grandview Coach Anne Holden said the victory was nice for the team's seniors, adding that both goals were scored by seniors. Jessica Rodriguez scored the first goal of the game in the first 10 seconds against the Wildcats, said Holden. She scored unassisted. Grandview's second goal was scored by senior Akane Tomizawa in the 22nd minute of the match-up. She scored off of an assist from Rodriquez. Overall, Grandview had 14 attempts on goal for the night, compared to one attempt by the Toppenish team. Holden said her team played well against the Wildcats, noting that they have really stepped up their game in recent match-ups. She said her team has also been very supportive of each other, noting that even with several position changes in recent games team members are continuing to push forward and look for the win. \"They've all contributed in their own way,\" Holden said of her team members. Holden said she thinks one big difference has been the recent move of Rodriguez from goalkeeper to midfielder. She said bringing her up front has given the team a new confidence. \"It's changed the whole approach,\" Holden said. The Grandview team (3-7, 4-9) has two games left in regular season play. Holden explained that if the team can win against Othello next week, they will be tied for the fourth seed to Districts. The tie will mean the two teams will have to face off to determine who will go into the postseason. Holden said the last few wins her team has pulled off has put the Lady 'Hounds in the driver's seat when it comes to the postseason. She explained that they don't have to rely on another team's performance to make it to Districts, instead they just have to win. \"It's up to us,\" Holden said. The Grandview team will take to the field Saturday against East Valley at home"}
{"Id":"1101162541092","Title":"Plan in place to monitor spread of BSE in United States","Author":"John Panni","Time":"10/21/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"PROSSER - Dr. Rory Meyer of the Animal Plant Health Inspection Service, a division of the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA), was the featured speaker at the Washington State University Research Center in Prosser Thursday afternoon. Meyer spoke about a testing program USDA has in place to test cattle for Bovine Spongiform Encephalopathy (BSE), better known as \"Mad Cow\" disease. BSE had been a problem in England for more than a decade, where the cattle supply was nearly annihilated. The BSE problem came to North America first hitting the United States in December 2001 when a cow in nearby Alderwood was diagnosed with the disease. BSE is a neurological disease in cattle. The disease is mainly passed in cattle by feed. However, the disease can also be passed genetically, said Meyer. Until bans were put into place on the type of feed that could be used, cattle were fed meat and bone meal to help provide the animals with needed protein and calcium. Meyer said the USDA and other agencies spent six to seven weeks investigating the first BSE case to ever hit the United States. Meyer said that the BSE cow in Alderwood, which was exported from Canada, and the cow with BSE found in Alberta, Canada, at one time were kept within 50 to 100 miles of each other. Meyer, though, said the risk is extremely low for BSE to become a problem in the U.S. like it was in England. He cited a 2001 study done by Harvard University that said with all the safety measures the United States has in place to prevent BSE, the risk for the disease to spread like it did in England is extremely low. \"Even if we were to get it, with all the bans we have in place it should phase out,\" said Meyer. But to help ensure consumer confidence and to find out where the BSE situation stands in the United States, USDA has begun a BSE testing program, said Meyer. The program will be overseen by the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS) division within USDA. Meyer said the testing program will be across the country, lasting between 12 and 18 months. The program began this past June, Meyer said, and will be a one-time effort by USDA. The program is meant to see if BSE is present in the cattle industry and if so at what levels. Under the program, USDA will assist cattle farmers with any cost of participating in the program. USDA officials will only be testing cattle in the high-risk population, meaning non-ambulatory cattle, cattle exhibiting signs of a central nervous disorder, cattle exhibiting signs associated with BSE and dead cattle. \"If we are going to find them (cattle with BSE), we are going to find them in that high-risk category,\" said Meyer. Meyer said the program will be targeting cattle older than 30 months. Meyer said the target age is older because cattle can carry the BSE disease up to 90 months. USDA will be working with officials at slaughter houses, farms and livestock auctions to find cattle in the high-risk population, as well as cattle farmers. Meyer said there is also a tracking system for cattle that makes it easy to trace back where the animals came from. Testing of animals will be done using ELISA, which is a rapid screening test that gives officials quick results. USDA is working with various laboratories across the country, including in Washington state, to provide test results. Meyers said any inconclusive results will be double-checked at the National Veterinary Services Laboratories in Iowa"}
{"Id":"1101162541326","Title":"Youth wrestling program holding fund-raiser","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"10/21/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"The Alderwood Little Grappler youth wrestling program will be holding a barbecue this Saturday and Sunday. The fund-raiser will be held at Food Pavilion, which is sponsoring the event, from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. on both days. Proceeds from the event will go to purchase uniforms for the program. There will be hamburgers, hot dogs and pops available as part of the barbecue"}
{"Id":"1101162605515","Title":"Guest Editorial","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"10/20/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"DON C. BRUNELL Louisiana has 16 chronically failing public schools, 15 of which are in the city of New Orleans. After years of infighting and finger pointing, the state has finally taken a bold step to solve the problem. The state of Louisiana took over a public school. If we don't stick to our 1992 school reforms here in Washington, the same thing could happen here. The P.A. Capdau Middle School had floundered for years. Last spring, more than half of its eighth-graders failed the LEAP test, Louisiana's version of Washington's WASL. The school's seventh-graders fared even worse, scoring lower than 81 percent of their peers nationwide on the Iowa Test of Basic Skills. The school has had eight principals in the last 10 years and changed its education programs three times in the past three years. In April, following years of warnings and second chances, the state took over the school and turned it over to the University of New Orleans. The University has had a plan in place since 2001 to create a charter school district of as many as ten troubled schools, but opposition from the School Board and the teachers union stopped the plan dead in its tracks. But with Capdau, the University finally got its chance to try a different approach. The changes came swiftly. Using a 250,000 donation from a local bank, the University gave the neglected school a fresh coat of paint, repaired leaky ceilings and installed new lights to brighten its dark and dingy hallways. Next, the University hired a veteran local principal with a get-tough reputation, replaced all but one of Capdau's teachers, and implemented a new curriculum that tailors instruction to each student. The idea is to help students learn at their own pace, rather than promote them to the next grade whether or not they'd learned the material. As with Washington state's education reforms, Louisiana wants to make sure its high school diplomas are more than just a record of attendance. With the curriculum in place, the search for students and teachers began. More than 500 students applied for the 264 spaces available at the school. Students were selected by lottery from applicants who lived within a five-mile radius of the school. The grandmother of two students selected for Capdau told state and school officials that the school takeover was the answer to her prayers. Teachers were not as impressed. Applications to work at Capdau came in slowly. Soured by years of failed school reform efforts, teachers were wary of signing on to yet another experiment in education reform. Eventually, University officials overcame their concerns, and more than 60 teachers applied for 16 available teaching positions. At a training session two weeks before the start of school, teachers were warned to discard their old ideas. \"Perception is reality,\" the trainer warned, and if they expected their students to be unruly and incapable, the students would respond to those expectations. \"I want you to grab those perceptions,\" said the trainer, \"and toss them on the floor.\" Of course, the teachers aren't na ve; they understand the difficulty of their challenge. But they are optimistic that they and the University will be able to change the lives of hundreds of students for the better. The school year at the new Capdau Charter School has just begun. This year, they're focusing on K-3 and the 7th and 8th grades, but eventually, Capdau will be a K-8 school. Parents, teachers and elected officials throughout Louisiana and the nation are watching closely. A success at Capdau could serve as a model for thousands of failing schools across the country. In New Orleans, a single charter school has brought hope and optimism to hundreds of parents. On Nov. 2, Washington voters will decide whether to keep our state's charter schools alternative. By approving Referendum 55, we can ensure that parents and children in our state have an alternative to failing schools. Don C. Brunell is President of the Association of Washington Business"}
{"Id":"1101162605749","Title":"Alderwood's Farm Credit Service manager brings agricultural heritage to Lower Valley","Author":"Jamie Smart","Time":"10/19/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"As one of the newest members of the Alderwood Noon Rotary Club, Rob Crum is learning his way around the group of Alderwood business owners and community professionals. Monday, the club members had an opportunity to learn a bit more about the third generation Eastern Oregonian, who is now the manager of the Alderwood branch of the Farm Credit Service. A recent graduate of Oregon State University, Crum has been in Alderwood for the past nine months, offering lines of credit to area farmers and agriculture-related businesses. \"I come from a long line of farmers,\" he told the group, saying his grandfather and father are wheat farmers in the small community of Ione, near Hermiston, Ore. \"It's a town of 250 people and I graduated with 10 people in my high school class,\" he said. \"I know ag-communities,\" he added. \"But my father discouraged me from becoming a farmer,\" he added. But unable to stay away from agriculture, Crum decided on a career that offers financial aid to farmers like his dad. Crum attended Blue Mountain Community College before transferring to Oregon State, where he earned a degree in agriculture business. \"I like crushing numbers and going out and kicking tires with farmers,\" he said. He said the Farm Credit Service has a long history of offering farmers low interest loans. Crum said he sees his job as a way to help maintain the security of the nation's food supply. \"We help to keep agriculture in America,\" Crum said. He said the Alderwood branch of the Farm Credit Service is part of the Northwest Farm Credit Service, which is one of five credit unions located throughout the United States. Crum said in addition to offering farmers low interest lines of credit for their farming operations, the Farm Credit Service also offers farm business classes for young farmers, incentives for staying in farming and low interest housing loans. \"Our agency has been around for 85 years, setting the lending standards for dealing with farmers. They know we will be there for them,\" Crum added. . Jamie Smart can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or you can e-mail her at jhart@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101162605999","Title":"Montana graduate joins Lincoln Ave. Family Medicine","Author":"Jamie Smart","Time":"10/19/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"An advertisement in a job search newsletter led Rachel Mattern of Billings, Mont. to the Lower Valley, and an opportunity to begin practicing medicine in a rural setting. She said she has long had a desire to work on the front line of medical care, working with families in rural settings. As of Oct. 11, Mattern has the chance to fulfill that dream as a member of the staff at Lincoln Avenue Family Medicine Clinic in Alderwood. A certified physician assistant, Mattern is a recent graduate of the Rocky Mountain College physician assistant program in Billings, Mont. Prior to entering the physician's assistant program, Mattern worked as a phlebotomist and as a clinical research assistant in Seattle. \"My husband, Brian, and I were interested in relocating back in Washington and Alderwood seems to be a perfect location for us,\" Mattern explained. She said before becoming a phlebotomist, she was pre-med student earning her Bachelor's degree in chemistry. \"I've always been interested in rural medicine and I looked to the physician assistant program as a way to work directly with patients,\" she explained. Mattern said she hopes to continue working in the Lower Valley for the long term. \"We like Alderwood. It feels like it will be a good spot for us,\" she said. . Jamie Smart can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or you can e-mail her at jSmart@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101162606233","Title":"Grizzly freshmen dump Wolfpack","Author":"John Panni","Time":"10/19/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"A team knows it is having a pretty good night when it racks up more than 500 yards offensively. This was how a wet Monday night went for the Alderwood High School freshman football team against visiting Wapato. The Grizzlies pounded Wapato 56-20 last night to improve to 5-2 on the season heading into next Monday's game at Ellensburg. Alderwood's lone touchdown in the opening quarter was a 23-yard pass play from quarterback Adrian Cantu to Frank Salcedo. The Grizzlies made good on a two-point conversion attempt to lead 8-0. The second quarter saw the Grizzlies tack on two more scores. Cantu scooted in from three yards out and the other touchdown was a 22-yard pass play from Cantu to Jessie Montelongo. Alderwood padded its 22-0 lead with three touchdowns in the third quarter. The first was a 15-yard touchdown pass from Cantu to Brice Rinehold. Montelongo scored next on a 41-yard run. Alderwood's last score of the third quarter was a 38-yard touchdown pass from Cantu to Joseph Villanueva. Grizzly freshman coach Glenn Braman went to his bench late in the third quarter. After that, the Wolfpack took advantage of some less experienced players being in the game, scoring three rushing touchdowns. Wapato made good on one of three two-point conversion attempts. Alderwood added two more touchdowns in the fourth quarter. Cantu scored on a 70-yard run. The Grizzlies missed the extra point attempt. The last touchdown was from Montelongo, who ran 82 yards for the score. Braman said Alderwood wasn't trying to score a lot of touchdowns against Wapato, but rather the Grizzlies were trying to work on executing some plays. Villanueva had a nice night for Alderwood, rushing for 144 yards on 14 carries. Montelongo had 139 yards on six totes. Cantu rushed eight times for 90 yards. Cantu also was 9-for-15 in the air for 219 yards"}
{"Id":"1101162606483","Title":"School problems focus of legislative dinner","Author":"Mel Sacher","Time":"10/19/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Administrators and school board members from school districts in the 15th Legislative District addressed concerns they have when it comes to the future of education in the state of Washington, Monday night at the Lower Valley School Board/Legislative Dinner. 15th District Sen. Jim Honeyford and Representatives Bruce Chandler and Dan Newhouse also talked about concerns they have with the WASL, school funding, charter schools and the future of education in the state. Ian Grabenhorst, assistant superintendent for ESD 105, listed some concerns the educational district holds. Amongst the educational priorities Grabenhorst outlined were a focus on amply funding K-12 education. He suggested the state complete a comprehensive review of the finance system and establish a sustainable, predictable and fair state funded system for public schools. Making a constitutional amendment that would allow school districts to pass a levy with a simple majority is also key to better education in Washington, said Grabenhorst. He asked the state legislators to consider repealing unfunded mandates, which are difficult to implement without funding in place. \"We have requests that are set in front of our districts and no funding,\" said Grabenhorst. He also asked the legislators to oppose binding arbitration and to reinforce the state's \"no strike\" laws. Sen. Honeyford, in his opening comments, said one of the major issues facing the legislature this budget cycle is money. \"We'll have at least a 1 billion deficit, plus collective bargaining. We'll probably be a billion-two upside down to start with,\" he said. He explained that K-12 education receives about 43 percent of the state's budget and another 10 percent goes to higher education. Corrections receives about 30 percent, leaving the state with about 20 percent of the money as discretionary. Honeyford said they have had difficulties getting the votes to make strikes illegal, but they are still working on it. He said he believes that questions about the WASL will once again return to the state level this next year. \"The WASL to some people is the holy grail to end education problems,\" said Honeyford. \"I don't like it. It's terribly expensive for what we get.\" Another concern is non-English speakers and the disabled taking the test. Chandler takes a different view on the test. He believes there has to be some kind of benchmark or test to see the educational growth. \"I believe at the end of the day most students will achieve our expectations of them,\" he said. \"If we expect great things they will rise to that.\" He added that he believes there is a lot to be said for better than average students. Chandler said a K-12 task force has been looking at education in the state and one of the areas it found of interest is special education funding. \"In areas some districts are making money on it and others are in the hole,\" said Chandler. Chandler said if Initiative 884 going before voters to help fund public education is passed it will be the highest tax increase in the history of the state. He said that if the initiative fails that most likely the legislators will be reluctant to increase taxes. \"If it passes it will probably be the only tax increase passed mainly because of its size,\" said Chandler. A concern Chandler has with the initiative is that if the 1 percent increase in retail sales tax for K-12 education is put in a fund and decided upon by a citizen oversight committee, he foresees the legislature having very little input on public education. One of Newhouse's main concerns is the class of 2008 being required to pass the WASL to graduate. \"There's concern about the dropout rate if we don't do anything about it,\" said Newhouse. But, some changes may be afoot at the state level. Currently, there are 25 Republicans in the Senate and 24 Democrats. With four close races, Honeyford feels it's too close to call what it will be like next year. The House of Representatives has 52 Democrats and 46 Republicans. \"That six-vote difference was determined in the last election by 1,700 people,\" said Chandler. \"This year we expect voter turnout to exceed 70 percent. Ten percent of voters in Yakima County could be new voters, which creates a lot of uncertainty.\" Local pastor and a member of the Alderwood School District's ethics committee, Ron Jetter, addressed the trend to combat obesity at the school level by banning certain foods and beverages from school grounds. He asked if the legislators anticipate a state law that would ban certain foods. Chandler said that last year two bills in the House addressed child obesity. One of the bills would have banned certain foods from being sold on school grounds. The other, known as the \"Fat Tax,\" would have taxed foods based on ingredients. The problem, he said, is that some candy bars would be taxed and others wouldn't. Chandler anticipates at least one proposal this year, but he would much rather leave it at the school board level. In all, the legislators are looking forward to an interesting session. They said they appreciated the input from those who are on the front line of education, which helps them in their decision making process in Olympia. The light at the end of the tunnel, Honeyford added at the end, is that the economic downfall the state has been experiencing is expected to end in 2009. He anticipates programs that have been neglected with funding, such as education, will receive more funding. . Mel Sacher can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or e-mail msacher@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101162606718","Title":"Five local students earn EWU degrees","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"10/19/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"CHENEY - Five Lower Alderwood Valley students earned degrees from Eastern Washington University at the end of summer quarter 2004. The EWU graduates include Jeffery Monahan of Alderwood, Master of Science degree in physical education; Leticia Chavez of Outlook, Master of Social Work; Lucy Rivera, Bachelor of Arts in social work; and Prosser's Corey Phillips, Bachelor of Arts in therapeutic recreation; and Stacey Thompson, Bachelor of Arts in therapeutic recreation"}
{"Id":"1101162606983","Title":"Grandview campus to host fall job fair","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"10/18/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"GRANDVIEW - Yakima Valley Community College will host a job fair Wednesday, Nov. 10, for students interested in applying for work in Grandview. The event will be held in the campus student lounge from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. Students should bring resumes and all the information they may need to fill out an employment application. Local Wal-Mart and Safeway stores will have representatives on site to answer questions and help students seeking employment find opportunities for work within their community. Wal-Mart is looking to hire as many as 200 new employees by early next year, according to Grandview YVCC Campus Dean Claude Dotson. \"This is a great opportunity for our students,\" he said. For more information about this event, contact the YVCC Grandview campus at 882-7000. Alderwood library plans Halloween storytime, party Plan your pumpkin carving now, urges Alderwood Public Librarian Kay Saunders. \"But save the actual carving to coincide with the Alderwood Library's Halloween jack-o'lantern carving contest,\" she said. The contest, which will offer prizes for the best carvings, will be held Friday, Oct. 29, at the library, 621 Grant Ave., from 4 to 5:30 p.m. In addition to pumpkin carving, a special story time will be held and a magician is scheduled make an appearance, Saunders said"}
{"Id":"1101162607218","Title":"Grizzlies maul the Wolves in Homecoming game","Author":"John Panni","Time":"10/18/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"A fumble prone second half was about the only drawback for the Alderwood High School football team in this past Friday night's Homecoming game against Wapato. The two-headed monster of Greg Gilleland and Joe Schwartz did most of the damage for the Grizzlies, as they helped record a commanding 42-21 victory over the Wolfpack. \"I thought we played well,\" said Alderwood Coach Mark Marro, \"but we didn't hold onto the ball.\" Alderwood got on the board early in the game when Gilleland returned an interception 40 yards for a touchdown. The Grizzlies' other early score came in the first quarter when Gilleland popped off a 20-yard touchdown run. The fun for Grizzly fans didn't stop with the end of the first quarter, as Alderwood scored twice in the second period. Gilleland scored both second quarter touchdowns, one off a one-yard run and the other a 22-yard pass from quarterback Tony Cantu. The Wolfpack was able to sustain a drive in the second quarter that led to a touchdown, when Wapato quarterback Jason Pitt found receiver Mark McDaniel on a five-yard pass. The second half was sort of a different story for the Grizzlies, as they didn't look anything like they did in the opening two quarters. The second half saw the Grizzlies fumble three times inside the Wolfpack's 20-yard line. \"We can't afford to cough up the ball,\" said Marro. Wapato took advantage of the slippery hands of the Grizzlies in the second half. The Wolfpack drove nearly the length of the field in the third quarter to see the drive end on a one-yard touchdown run from Art Weaver. With the score 28-14, the Grizzlies got back to pounding the ball on the ground. Gilleland scored on a four-yard touchdown run in the fourth quarter. Teammate Joe Schwartz added a 17-yard touchdown run to account for the final score. Wapato's Justin Clements gave the Wolfpack its last score when he ran past the Grizzly defense on a 74-yard touchdown run. The Grizzlies did a nice job of keeping Wapato's defense guessing. Alderwood was able to mix in an effective passing game with a dominating run attack. Cantu went 10-for-16 on the night through the air for 186 yards. \"We wanted Tony to throw the ball,\" said Marro. \"We are going to need him to throw the ball in the next couple of weeks.\" Marro said he was impressed with the way Wapato played, as the Wolfpack was putting some hard hits on the Grizzlies. \"They have steadily gotten better,\" said Marro. Marro was also impressed with the play of his offensive line, which opened holes for Gilleland and Schwartz all night. Gilleland ended up rushing for 158 yards on 24 carries while Schwartz had 101 yards off 14 totes. Gilleland also had two receptions for 67 yards. Gilleland set a new school record for most points scored in a game. Gilleland scored 30 points on Friday night, breaking Larry Coleman's record set in 1979 of 26 points against East Valley-Spokane. Gilleland also tied the record with a host of other players for most rushing touchdowns in a game with three. One Alderwood player who performed extremely well Friday night was Noe Zamarron, who was both a force on the offensive and defensive sides of the ball. Zamarron had three catches for 52 yards. \"He has great hands,\" said Marro. \"Noe is an exceptional athlete.\" The only drawback in the game that Marro saw was the fumbles by Alderwood in the second half. Marro also felt his defensive unit could have done a better job of tackling in the second half. \"We missed a lot of tackles,\" said Marro. Besides the fumbles, Marro felt his team did an exceptional job of playing the game. \"We got pretty much what we expected from the players,\" said Marro. Alderwood (2-2, 4-3) will be without the services of Gilleland for a crucial Mid-Valley League match-up at Ellensburg. Gilleland was ejected late from Friday's game for an altercation with a Wapato player. \"It is always a tough place to play at Ellensburg,\" said Marro. \"I am excited about the game.\" Marro said the game against Ellensburg is a must win if Alderwood wants to stay in playoff contention. . John Panni can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or email him at mPanni@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101162607468","Title":"'Hounds race past Toppenish, 42-12","Author":"Bob Story","Time":"10/18/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"TOPPENISH - The Grandview High School football team picked up its third CWAC South victory of the season last Friday night via a dominating 42-12 win over the Toppenish Wildcats. With the exception of one defensive breakdown, the Greyhounds kept Toppenish in check for most of the night. \"We had everyone up blitzing on that one breakdown,\" said Grandview Coach Justin Lamb. Toppenish running back Ramon Garza, who led all rushers in the game with just over 160 yards, squirted past the oncoming blitzers and raced 77 yards for a TD. The Wildcats added their only other score of the night just before halftime. Tomas Suarez capped off the scoring drive with a 3-yard plunge into the end zone. But by the time Suarez found pay dirt, Grandview already had a commanding 28-6 lead on the 'Cats. The 'Hounds, who went into the locker room at intermission up 28-12, added two touchdowns after the break to account for the 42-12 drubbing. Lamb said his defensive unit did a solid job of shutting down Toppenish in the second half. \"Especially the two goal line stands we had in the second half, when Toppenish still had their first unit in there. We had a mixture of first and second unit players on the field, and our kids held when Toppenish had the ball deep on our end of the field,\" Lamb said. The Grandview coach went on to single out senior Ryan Dill, who played well, said Lamb, from his cornerback spot. Dill basically killed one Toppenish scoring opportunity when he intercepted a pass in the end zone. He returned the ball about 30 yards to give the 'Hounds good field position. Scoring-wise for Grandview, senior Silas Hansen rushed for three touchdowns on the night. Quarterback Brandon Artz, a junior, had two TD throws, both to James Vela. \"It was our third straight week of having a rusher over 120 yards,\" said Lamb, speaking of Hansen's performance. \"Our offensive line is finally getting it done.\" In assessing Artz's play, Lamb said his quarterback was \"...really solid. With a good running game, Brandon is finding some time back there to throw the ball,\" Lamb said. Friday's win over the Wildcats upped Grandview's CWAC South record to 3-2, 3-4 overall. The 'Hounds close out regular season play this coming Friday at home against league leading East Valley (4-0, 7-0). \"Oh yeah, East Valley is going to provide us a challenge,\" Lamb said. \"They're as efficient and disciplined as any team I've seen. \"We're just going to try to improve on what we're already doing well,\" he added. . Bob Story,can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or e-mail him at bstory@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101162607702","Title":"Mabton grid team tethers Billy Goats","Author":"Bob Story","Time":"10/18/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"PATEROS - The Pateros Billy Goats were undefeated in Central Washington 'B' League play heading into last Friday's football game against visiting Mabton. They no longer are. Mabton bullied the Billy Goats enroute to scoring a 35-17 conference victory. \"It was big,\" said Mabton Coach D.J. Search. \"We out-physicaled them. \"The coaches and kids did a good of watching film last week. We were all confident we were going to be more physical than them,\" Search said. Search credits his offensive and defensive lines for taking control of the game. \"Both lines played outstanding,\" he said. Defensively, Mabton limited Pateros to just 86 rushing yards. The Billy Goats did gain about 150 yards through the air, although the Pateros QB, Zahn, was picked once. The interception was claimed by Mabton free safety Ryan Harris. Search explained that Pateros employed a spread offense against his club, often times using pro sets in the backfield. \"We just played assignment defense against them,\" he said. \"We stayed in our 5-3 defense, except on 3rd and long plays when we jumped into something else. \"We were very physical against them,\" Search added. \"Our whole defense did their job. They came to play. Tackling was very good.\" Offensively, the Vikings' line was just as physical, which resulted in some large holes being opened for Mabton's running backs. The Vikes' leading ground gainers were Pablo Sanchez, Alex Zavala and Ray Elizondo. Sanchez tallied 108 yards on the ground on 13 carries. Zavala scooted for 93 yards on 10 totes, and Elizondo ran the ball 11 times for 61 yards. Mabton QB Ryan Harris didn't have to air it out much Friday night. He only attempted nine passes, completing three of them for 80 yards. Zavala had two of the receptions, accouting for 72 of the 80 passing yards. The Vikes opened a 14-0 lead on Pateros with two first quarter scores. Sanchez had the first TD, that coming on a 61-yard breakaway run. Harris had a 2-yard dive for the second touchdown. Pateros countered with a 39-yard TD pass late in the opening quarter to cut Mabton's lead to 14-6. The Vikes responded in the second quarter, though, punching in two more touchdowns to build their lead to 28-6. Jovanni Ochoa, on his only carry of the game because Sanchez's helmet was broken, scored the first of the two TD's on a 3-yard plunge. The other touchdown came on Sanchez's second score of the night, a 9-yard scamper. Pateros closed the gap to 28-10 just before the half on a 28-yard field goal. Mabton added an insurance score in the third quarter when Zavala broke loose and raced 16 yards for a TD. Marco Zepeda followed up the touchdown with his fifth consecutive successful PAT kick of the night. The Billy Goats got a second TD pass from Zahn in the final quarter to account for the final 35-17 score. Last Friday's win improved Mabton's South Central 'B' League record to 4-2, 5-2 overall. The Vikings are scheduled to play a non-league game at Highland (3-4) this coming Friday. Pateros slipped to 4-1 in conference play with the loss, and the Billy Goats still have to play league leading Waterville (5-0). . Bob Story,can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or e-mail him at bstory@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101162622218","Title":"Students leave their mark on historical Alderwood site","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"10/18/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"A group of local fifth graders can now claim ownership in one of Alderwood's most recognizable pieces of history. Students in Erica Barrom's class spent most of Friday afternoon rechinking Ben Snipes cabin at the corner of Grant Avenue and South Fourth Street. \"We came to fill in the cracks,\" said fifth grader Carlos Cardenas. The students spent more than an hour up to their elbows in a mud and straw mixture that they used to fill in the spaces between the logs of the cabin. The students gave it their all as they pushed their hands into the crevices in the building, ensuring the mud mixture was securely in place. Barrom said the rechinking served as a way for the students to get involved in the community. She explained that when Bill Flower mentioned the idea of rechinking the cabin to her husband, Jeff Barrom, she decided to bring the idea to her class. Barrom said she asked her students if they would be interested in rechinking the more than 150-year-old cabin, and the answer was a resounding yes. According to Barrom, before her students arrived at the cabin they went through a little bit of preparation in the classroom. She said they talked about what chinking is and the importance of volunteering. She added that once the students arrived at the cabin Flower gave them an oral presentation on the history of Alderwood and the significance of the cabin. After watching her students jump head first into the rechinking project, Barrom said it was nice to see her students not afraid to get a little dirty. Barrom added that this is one of several volunteer projects her classroom has taken part in. She said that her students also make monthly visits to Hillcrest Manor, where they meet with the residents. Ed Werkhoven, president of the Alderwood Daybreak Rotary Club, which oversees the historic cabin, said Ben Snipes cabin typically has to be rechinked every three years. He noted that the interval between chinking the cabin depends on how much the sun beats down on the building, which causes the mud mixture to dry up and crack. Werkhoven said it was nice to see a group of students who were so interested in helping maintain the cabin. \"These kids really got into it,\" Werkhoven said. \"They're not afraid to get a little dirty.\" . Ellie Olmsen can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or e-mail her at eOlmsen@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101162622499","Title":"Entertainment Briefs","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"10/15/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"1-Column Symphonyto celebrate60th anniversary RICHLAND - The opening concert, celebrating the 60th anniversary season of the Mid-Columbia Symphony, will be held this Saturday in the Richland High School auditorium. The Oct. 16 program will feature national award winning violinist Paige Kossuth of Bellevue. She will perform the Sibelius \"Violin Concerto.\" Included in tomorrow's program will be the von Suppe \"Poet & Peasant Overture\" and the Tchaikovsky \"Symphony No. 2.\" The music director and conductor for tomorrow's 8 p.m. concert will be Dr. Robert Bode. Three additional concerts to commemorate the 2004-05 anniversary season are scheduled for next year, on Feb. 5, March 19 and May 7. The Richland area symphony orchestra got its start when 15 volunteer musicians, made up of housewives, Hanford scientists, students and business people, accompanied a performance of the \"Messiah\" in Richland in December 1945. Today, the Mid-Columbia orchestra consists of 60 professional musicians. Tickets to tomorrow's concert can be obtained by calling (509) 943-6602. Diggin' Dixie event slatedfor Nov. 5-7 OCEAN SHORES - Eight Dixieland jazz bands will be appearing at four venues the first full weekend in November in Ocean Shores. The occasion for the Dixieland gathering is the 22nd annual Ocean Shores Dixieland Jazz Festival. The Nov. 5-7 festival will be headquartered at the Ocean Shores Convention Center. Tickets to the event for all three days at all four venues are priced at 55. Single day tickets are also available by calling (360) 289-4094. The festival sites will include the convention center, the Quinault Beach Resort & Casino, Ocean Shores Elk Lodge and Ocean Shores Lions Club. The eight Dixieland bands that will perform include The New Reformation Band with the Oppermann brothers from Saginaw, Mich., the Uptown Lowdown Jazz Band of Bellevue, The Black Swan Jazz Band of Portland, Ore., the Prohibition Jazz Band of Silverdale, the CanUS Jazz Band of Victoria, British Columbia, the Electric Park Jazz Band of Aberdeen and the Monarch's Jazz Band of Tacoma. Tales of the Trails billed as fun for kids YAKIMA - \"Tales of the Trails\" is the theme of the 10th annual Rotary Storyfest, slated for Nov. 16-19 at the Yakima Valley Museum. For the fifth consecutive year, performers Nancy Stewart and MaryLee Sunseri will bring the songs and stories of the Old West to life during \"Tales of the Trails\" at the local museum. The two women's repertoire for the program will include traditional songs, as well as many written specifically for this venue. The event is billed as a program of storytelling and music designed for young people, which helps fulfill the museum's education mission. Thanks to the sponsorship of the Yakima Sunrise Rotary Club, all performances are free to the public. Seating, however, is limited and fills up quickly. School teachers can reserve a spot for their classes by calling (509) 248-0747. Children and their families are being invited to a special public performance Friday evening, Nov. 19, at 7 p.m. Reservations are not needed for the Friday evening performance"}
{"Id":"1101162622734","Title":"County commissioner candidates participate in forum","Author":"John Panni","Time":"10/15/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"GRANDVIEW - Former Alderwood City Councilman Chad Werkhoven served as moderator for a political forum Thursday night in Grandview, which featured candidates running for Yakima County commissioner positions. Three candidates featured at the forum, sponsored by the Grandview Kiwanis Club, were Mike Leita, Republican, Erv Wandler, Constitution Party of Yakima, and Earl S. Lee, Democrat. All three candidates are vying for the open position being left by current Yakima County Commissioner Tim June in district one. The other candidates last night were current district two Yakima County Commissioner Tom Camay, Republican, and Independent candidate Sandra Swanson. Yakima Mayor Paul George, Democrat, was unable to be in attendance last night. Each of the candidates were given a couple of minutes to introduce themselves. Leita said he was raised in Yakima and is a graduate of Washington State University with a business degree. \"I am fully committed to this process,\" said Leita, referring to his commitment to becoming a county commissioner. \"We do need new leadership.\" Leita concentrated for a minute on the problems facing Yakima County, especially from the fiscal end. Leita said to help with the fiscal issues he would promote a business attitude within the county. Wandler was direct in his comments to the audience last night. \"If you elect me, I will never let you down,\" Wandler smiled. Wandler said the problem with county government is officials say they hear the problems of the people, but they never address the issues. Lee, one of 13 children raised in Yakima by his parents, cited his extensive education background as one of the reasons why he should be elected to office. \"I have dealt with every issue,\" said Lee. Lee said he has dealt with issues from agriculture to education to business in Yakima County for years. One of the areas Lee would focus on if elected county commissioner would be to do more grant writing. Lee believes the county hasn't utilized grants enough. \"I know how to get you money,\" said Lee. Lee said he also wanted to stress the importance of the county working together with residents. \"The key to a community and success is we all work together,\" said Lee. Swanson is a native of Wapato. She has a varied background, which includes working in the agriculture field and running a small business. Swanson was at the forefront fighting several measures government officials in Yakima tried to implement, including a tax issue that would have cost residents millions of dollars and the formation of a port district. Swanson spoke proudly of how she is not affiliated with any of the parties. \"That is what I bring to the table, an independent voice,\" Swanson said. Camay, a Toppenish resident, spoke about his knowledge of issues facing people in the county, including matters facing farmers, citing his 34 years in the industry. \"I care about what happens to the people of Yakima County,\" said Camay. \"I am committed to my job.\" Camay cited the successes of the county commissioners in recent years, including their work in helping bringing in the Wal-Mart distribution center to Grandview. The forum then switched to each of the candidates answering questions from the audience. One of the first questions focused on the 3/10's of 1 percent sales tax Yakima County Sheriff Ken Irwin is proposing to fund law and justice services and whether the candidates were in favor of the issue. Camay said commissioners decided to leave the issue of the sales tax to the people, who will vote on the matter in the upcoming election. Camay said the sales tax idea is a viable solution to help with funding law and justice matters. Camay said law and justice eats up 82 percent of the county's yearly budget. \"This is something I could never vote for,\" said Swanson. Swanson said the sales tax issue will take millions of dollars out of the county's economy yearly. Swanson suggested the county look at bombarding the state legislature to get back the 42 of every law and justice dollar spent that goes to the state. Lee said he is not in favor of the tax either. He felt a more productive way to save money would be to eliminate the overtime the county has a problem controlling. Lee said officers should be rewarded with comp time. Lee also felt privatization could be utilized with the sheriff's department to save taxpayers millions of dollars. Wandler said addressing law enforcement would be a priority of his. Wandler said where the county ran into problems with law and justice was it spent money it didn't have for various programs. Leita said he would support whatever the people decided on the tax. But he wasn't necessarily in favor of the tax, feeling the county was looking at a short-term solution to addressing money problems. Another question had to do with the county possibly shutting down the parks department. Swanson felt there is no reason the county should close the parks when it is such a small part of their budget. She felt that parks would be another ideal area for privatization services. \"I am convinced we can keep our parks open,\" said Swanson. \"There are many ways to keep the parks open,\" said Lee. Lee felt the county could work with different training agencies to utilize people to take care of the parks. Wandler didn't offer much of a suggestion on how to keep the parks open. Leita also suggested privatizing to keep the parks system going. Leita said he felt the commissioners should look else where to make budget cuts before cutting the parks department. Camay said the county is doing its best to keep the parks department open, but money is tight. Camay said the county is looking at ways to make a profit from the parks. \"We are trying to do the best we can with what we have,\" said Camay. One of the hot topics addressed had to do with the jail debacle the county is currently going through. Leita said if he was elected commissioner his first order of duty would be to finish construction on the 288-bed jail, the first phase of the project. He would then halt construction and form a committee to examine ways the county allegedly mishandled the jail construction project. \"It is a solution to a problem,\" said Camay. \"We are going to run out of jail space in the next 10 years and that is a fact.\" Camay said the jail project has no fiscal impact on the county's general budget, as it is being paid for with bonds commissioners approved. Camay said the jail project will help the county fiscally. Swanson said she would also finish construction on the first phase of the jail project, but halt matters after that. She said the county is going to have financial problems paying for the jail because of the competition for jail space. \"We need to stop and take a whole new look at this,\" said Swanson. Lee cited the financial problems the county will have with the jail, which is expected to lose nearly 2 million in its first couple of years of operation. Lee said both the Tri-Cities and Ellensburg are working on jail facilities that will cut into the county financially. Wandler said he was under the impression the current jail facility was more than adequate for Yakima County. He said he felt the county bit off more than it could chew with the jail project"}
{"Id":"1101162622968","Title":"Guest Editorial","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"10/15/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"ROBERT DE POSADA Once again, the U.S. Census found that the number of uninsured Americans has increased, this time to 45 million - an increase of 1.4 million from last year. As the cost of health insurance increases, many employers are dropping coverage, leaving millions of Americans to buy their own coverage. In fact, the same census report found that those covered by employer provided coverage dropped to 60 percent of the population, down from 2003 numbers. This hits the minority community the hardest. Latinos and African-Americans account for more than 50 percent of the uninsured population-one out of every three Latinos is uninsured and about one out of every five African-Americans. The tax code has favored employer-provided health insurance for the last 60 years, and in that time, this important benefit has enabled most Americans to get health insurance from their employers. Workers who buy their own health insurance are the only people who don't get a tax break when and if they buy health insurance. This year, employer-provided and self-employed health insurance will enjoy a 155 billion tax break. It is fundamentally unfair that workers are discriminated against by the federal tax code in their purchase of health insurance simply because they buy a policy outside their place of employment. With the jump in the uninsured, surely there should be political momentum behind helping the uninsured get health insurance. But with the campaign season in full swing, the people who desperately need access to affordable health insurance will have to wait until after the next election to get any help at all, unless Congress does something right away. Congress could pass a bill now that would provide relief to workers. This bill, known as \"Fair Care for the Uninsured,\" would provide money for the purchase of health insurance- 1,000 for an individual, 2,000 for a couple, and 3,000 for a family, each year. President Bush has provided funding for this money in his budget. Fair Care would correct the discrimination built into the tax code that currently gives unlimited tax benefits to those who purchase health insurance through their employer, but no tax benefit to the individual purchaser. The money provided under Fair Care would be advanced to workers up front so that they would have money to buy health insurance, and, according to Fiscal Associates, 18.6 million uninsured people could buy health insurance. During this presidential campaign, the Democratic nominee, Senator John Kerry, has suggested other ways to help the uninsured, such as a tax break for small businesses, extending Medicaid to cover low-income children, and enabling workers to buy into health coverage programs for federal employees. However, in 19 years in the Senate, Mr. Kerry has not introduced legislation to address the uninsured crisis. But today he can change that by marching right down to the Senate and adding his name to the Fair Care bill. He doesn't have to wait to make more empty campaign promises. He can make his dream to help the uninsured a reality by immediately supporting this bipartisan legislation. Perhaps it's because Senator Kerry is worth 169 million and gets tax-free health insurance from the federal government. The Florida Times-Union indicated in a recent editorial that Mr. Kerry \"may not see it [the uninsured] as a problem. Admittedly, [Fair Care] would not appeal to those who want to turn health care entirely over to the government, hang the cost.\" Most politicians think reducing the number of uninsured is a good thing. Republicans and Democrats in the U.S. Congress think Fair Care is a good idea and support the legislation. National groups representing Hispanics, small employers and farmers support Fair Care. While some policymakers would like to consign a large number of America's working poor to Medicaid, or some expanded version of Medicaid in which individuals and families will only get the benefits government officials give them, Fair Care is a superior alternative, which would not bust the federal budget and continue to choke state budgets across the country. The best option is to change the tax treatment of health insurance and give low-income working families without health insurance money to help them purchase private health insurance best suited for their families. Robert de Posada is president of The Latino Coalition ( www.thelatinocoalition.com), a non-profit, non-partisan organization based in Washington, D.C"}
{"Id":"1101162623203","Title":"Religious Reflections","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"10/15/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Pastor Nathan Zakahi Shortly before moving from Hawaii to Alderwood, a friend gave our family tickets to the Pro Bowl (a very, very good friend). We had third row seats at the 40 yard line directly behind the NFC All-Stars bench. Even though the Pro Bowl is played every year in February (since 1980), this was our first and only experience. My oldest son and I were intently watching the star-studded game. In the meantime, my wife and youngest son were intently watching the bench, waving at any player who got up to get some Gatorade. In my annoyance, I explained to my wife and youngest that what they were doing was fruitless. \"The players are warned ahead of time not to give the fans any false hope of signing autographs since if you do it for one, you must do it for the other 50,000 in attendance,\" I said. Ignoring me, half of the family continued to wave and try to make eye contact with the players throughout the whole game. Toward the end of the fourth quarter, a player caught my eye as he walked from the Gatorade table toward our row of seats. That player was Michael Bates, who played for the Carolina Panthers as a return specialist. He took off the Panther cap that he was wearing, signed it with a pen and then pointed in our direction. As I traced his finger, I soon realized he was pointing at my youngest son. He then tossed his cap to my son. Needless to say, I was speechless and my own effort to wave at players during the closing minutes of the game was to no avail. My son and the rest of our family have been fans of Michael Bates ever since that day. It only took a minute of his precious time to encourage an eight-year old boy and gain some lifetime fans. The writer of Hebrews records in 10:25 Let us not give up meeting together, as some are in the habit of doing, but let us encourage one another-- and all the more as you see the Day approaching. Hebrews tells us that church involves more than just showing up for services. One of the great functions of church life is encouragement. It means to help others find strength and courage in their life with God. Back in the New Testament setting, members were facing persecution, hardship and turmoil and some were about to give up. A word of hope, a kind deed done in love goes a long way. Almost two thousand years later, not much has changed concerning the need for encouragement. My son still has that cap hanging on his bedroom wall. I need to look at it more often and be reminded of that day when a football player inconvenienced himself, took time and brought cheer to a young boy. I find it far too easy to be negative, sour and fault finding. Encouragement involves focusing on others and willing to be a little inconvenienced. It may mean targeting someone specific at work or at a church service or at the family dinner table. It takes some of your precious time but the impact is far reaching and more than you may ever know. - Pastor Nathan Zakahi of the Alderwood Grace Brethren Church"}
{"Id":"1101162623437","Title":"AHS harriers finish up conference match-ups","Author":"Bob Story","Time":"10/15/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"ELLENSBURG - Let the fun begin! Yesterday, the Alderwood High School cross country team concluded what most will admit is a meaningless conference schedule. On the horizon is the District meet, the first step for those attempting to qualify for this year's State cross country meet. Competing at Ellensburg Thursday afternoon, both the Alderwood boys and girls squads were upended by the host Bulldogs, as well as by West Valley. The Grizzly boys team concluded Mid-Valley League play with a 1-5 record. The Lady Grizzly harriers were 0-6 in league play this season. In the boys race, AHS senior Brenden Scott again proved he will be a force when the postseason races roll around. Scott garnered a second place individual finish in Ellensburg, coming in just six seconds back of the winner-Joe Darda of Ellensburg. Darda's first place finish, coupled with a fourth place individual finish by teammate Isak Bergman and a seventh place showing by the Bulldogs' Jeff Jorgensen, powered Ellensburg to a 21-39 victory over Alderwood. In the West Valley-Ellensburg boys match-up, the Rams prevailed by a 26-33 score. West Valley's top finisher was Richie Williams, third overall in a time of 18:00. Williams was well back of Darda and Scott, who clocked times of 17:19 and 17:25, respectively. The Rams, though, had superior team depth to knock off both Ellensburg and Alderwood in yesterday's match-ups. West Valley claimed the fifth and sixth place individual finishes to go along with Williams' third place showing, and also grabbed the eighth through 12th place individual finishes. Cipriano Meraz had the second fastest time for Alderwood on the Ellensburg course, clocking a 19:26 to earn a 13th place finish. Also competing for the Grizzly boys were Sterling Scott, 22nd in a time of 20:11; Joel Gaspar, 25th in 20:28; Gregg Burbidge, 39th in 22:02; Dane Schmick, 57th in 25:34; Lance Warner, 62nd in 26:20; and Kevin Lick, 63rd in 27:47. In Thursday's girls race, the Lady Grizzlies were beaten 20-43 by West Valley and 21-39 by Ellensburg. The overall individual winner was Michelle Schubert of West Valley, who recorded a time of 20:25. The Rams claimed the top seven individual finishes. Mercedes Martinez was Alderwood's top finisher. She clocked a 24:22 to earn an 11th place finish. Also competing for the Lady Grizzlies were Christina Fuller, 23rd in 30:48; Angelina Fernandez, 24th in 30:59; Andrea Benitez, 27th in 31:23; and Brenda Mora, 30th in 35:25. The Mid-Valley League's District meet will be staged on Selah's hilly three-mile course, on Saturday, Oct. 23. Selah's Garry Lorance appears to be the runner to beat on the boys side. Regional action is slated to be held the following Saturday, Oct. 30, in Richland at a site yet to be named. The class 3A State meet is again scheduled to take place at Sun Willows Golf Course in Pasco (Nov. 6"}
{"Id":"1101162623703","Title":"Guest Editorial","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"10/13/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"DON C. BRUNELL In September, California Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger vetoed legislation that would have raised that state's minimum wage from 6.75 to 7.25 per hour in January and 7.75 in 2006. Meanwhile, Washington's Department of Labor and Industries announced that our state's starting wage will increase to 7.35 starting next year. Washington's minimum wage is already the highest in the country. It is no coincidence that Washington's unemployment rate is also among the highest in the nation. On an hourly basis, Washington's minimum wage will exceed Oregon and Alaska by 25 cents, California by 65 cents and Idaho by 2.20. The truth of the matter is Washington's new minimum wage is closer to 9 an hour and, for some industries, is now over 10 per hour because of employer payroll taxes such as unemployment insurance, Social Security and workers' comp. Unless Washington's Legislature acts in 2005, our minimum wage will automatically go up again in 2006. These automatic increases were part of a union backed initiative that passed in 1998 which mandates annual cost-of-living increases in the minimum wage based on the federal Consumer Price Index for Urban Wage Earners and Clerical Workers. In other words, our state's minimum wage is pegged to wage-rates in Seattle without regard for regional differences in rural parts of the state. Take Dayton, Wa. for example. In Dayton, the world's largest asparagus processing plant will close after next summer's harvest because it cannot compete with cheaper Peruvian asparagus. Part of the reason is Washington's high minimum wage. So, while Washington voters may have had the best of intentions when they passed the automatic wage increases, our high minimum wage has helped kill 50 full-time jobs and 1,000 seasonal jobs in Dayton. That's not what the voters had in mind. California, a state with a heavy dependence on agriculture, would also be hurt by a minimum wage hike. In vetoing the recent legislation, Gov. Schwarzenegger rightfully acknowledged that increasing the state's minimum wage makes it too expensive for employers to hire inexperienced workers or provide jobs for young people and seniors. And remember, small businesses create most of the jobs in this country. In essence, raising the minimum wage ever higher forces farmers and small businesses to cut jobs, replace workers with machines, or simply close up shop. The problem will get worse unless legislators take bold action next year to change the law. They need to do four things to change our state's minimum wage law before it further erodes our state's job base:1) Repeal the automatic cost-of-living increase and raise minimum wage rates only when warranted; 2) Freeze the minimum wage at 7.35 until competing states catch up; 3) Treat the minimum wage the same way we treat prevailing wages in Washington-tie it to local economies; and 4) Establish a lower short-term training wage and a lower minimum wage for anyone under age 18 to encourage employers to offer job opportunities to disadvantaged and young workers. While increasing the minimum wage may have seemed like a good idea, it has ended up hurting the very people it was supposed to help. That's called \"the law of unintended consequences.\" Legislators need to change the law next session. Don C. Brunell is President of the Association of Washington Business"}
{"Id":"1101162623937","Title":"Obituaries","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"10/13/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"STEPHEN RISDON PECK STEPHEN RISDON PECK Stephen Risdon Peck, 62, of Shoreline died peacefully Saturday, Oct. 9, 2004, at home after a courageous five year battle against brain cancer. Steve was born on Feb. 7, 1942 in Wenatchee to James and Maxine Peck. He grew up in Alderwood, where he hunted with his dad and brother, played high school football and graduated from Alderwood High School in 1960. After graduation Steve joined the U.S. Navy, where he represented his country aboard the U.S.S. Stonewall Jackson as a submarine sonar operator. During his service Steve was selected as Outstanding Navy Man of the Month by his command, in Naples, Italy. He was released from active duty with a Good Conduct Medal for service ending in January 1965. Steve developed his successful insurance career for over 30 years in insurance sales with Mutual of Omaha and Bankers Life Insurance. Steve was an active U.W. Husky football fan and enjoyed boating in Puget Sound, car racing, travel, fishing, gardening, cooking and entertaining family and friends at home. Steve s sense of humor, leadership and ability to inspire the best in others will be missed. Steve is loved and is survived by his wife, Elaine; son, Shane and fianc e, Janet Utterback; daughter, Erika; son, Mark and fianc e, Ann Blackburn, of Melbourne, Australia; son, Stephen; step-daughter, Amber Ryan; step-son, Eric Ryan; brother, Mike Peck and Adele Francis; sister, Marilyn VanBelle and husband, Archie VanBelle; sister, Nancy Solts; mother and father-in-law, Howard and Virginia Fordice; brother-in-law, Dan Fordice and wife, Kari Fordice; sister in law, Claudia Dennee and Steve Melroth; brother-in-law, Bob Fordice and wife, Kris Fordice; 15 nieces and nephews; and 11 grandnieces and nephews. A memorial service celebrating Steve s life will be held Thursday, Oct. 14, 2004, at 10:30 a.m. at First Free Methodist Church, 3200 3rd Avenue West, Seattle, WA, 98119. In remembrance, donations can be made to Children s Hospital and Regional Medical Center Foundation Guild Association in Seattle"}
{"Id":"1101162624171","Title":"Briefly","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"10/12/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"1-Column WASL success night planned Wednesday, Oct. 13, will be a night to celebrate the academic successes of Alderwood's Chief Kamiakin Elementary School fifth graders, according to Julie Schmick, Chief Kamiakin principal. A Washington Assessment of Student Learning (WASL) celebration night will be held Wednesday evening at the Alderwood High School auditorium at 7 p.m., Schmick said. Parents are invited to pick up their fifth graders' 4th grade WASL scores from 6:45 to 7 p.m. at the high school. \"We will celebrate everyone's success and special recognition will be given to those students who passed all three portions (writing, reading and math) of the state assessment test,\" Schmick said. She said refreshments will be served. Community harvest festival set A harvest festival family event will be held Saturday, Oct. 23, from 1 to 5 p.m. at the Alderwood Community Center, South First Street. Participants will enjoy games, crafts and refreshments. All children must be accompanied by an adult. Pearl Hughes Guild meets Friday The Pearl Hughes Guild of Children's Hospital and Medical Center will meet Friday, Oct. 15, at 11:30 a.m. at the Sunny Spot Restaurant in Alderwood. Bernice Nederhood will provide the gift for the October hostess gift project, which benefits the Seattle center. Joyce Carter, who is the guild calendar chairman, said the 2005 children's calendars are now available in Alderwood at Neva's Beauty Salon, Alderwood Food Pavilion and at Scissor City. Calendar sales benefit the Seattle children's medical center"}
{"Id":"1101162624406","Title":"Teacher looks for gaps in curriculum to help build better students","Author":"Mel Sacher","Time":"10/12/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"During her principal internship last year, Lori Froese determined that her calling maybe wasn't heading a school, but rather crunching the numbers and looking for patterns in student test scores to see where there are gaps in the curriculum. \"During my internship I found that I really enjoy working with the numbers and data, and Stan Davis, my mentor, gave me the freedom to do so,\" said Froese, who is the new assessment coordinator for the Alderwood School District. At the end of the school year she made a proposal to Superintendent Dr. Aaron Bones, who approved creating the new position. Froese competed against several others during the hiring process, but in the end was hired. For eight years Froese was employed as a teacher in the Alderwood School District. Four of the years she taught sixth grade and the other four she had a fourth grade classroom, so she knows about the testing processes the students undergo every year. She has had classrooms of students take the Washington Assessment of Student Learning (WASL) test, as well as a plethora of other tests used to assess students. Her familiarity with the tests and testing process has helped her as she looks at test results from the WASL, MAP (Measures of Academic Progress), Iowa Test of Basic Skills and other tests used to measure students' progress. Froese explained that the district decided that now that it has all the information, it hired her to find a way to use it and make it user friendly. \"I do a lot of graphing so administrators have a visual and it makes more sense,\" said Froese. Part of what she does is a correlation study between MAP testing results and WASL results. \"We hope to predict individuals who have a chance of passing WASL but maybe need a little extra help,\" said Froese. By comparing the two tests, she hopes they will be able to see gaps in the curriculum that will help students in the testing processes. Froese explained that both the WASL and the MAP tests cover broad areas and have several strands to them. She said that by comparing strands and finding trends they can find weaknesses and fill it with supplemental material. To start off, Froese is looking at the test scores as a whole and the trends. In the future she hopes to be as individualized as being able to find individual students consistently scoring low and finding them the extra help they need to pass the tests. Although right now Froese is working primarily with school district principals, she hopes to work more with parents and students in the future. \"I hope to work more with them so they have a better understanding of why we're taking all these tests,\" said Froese. Her job description has her working with students from kindergarten through 12th grade, but Froese said most of the assessments occur between third and 10th grades. Froese misses working with students, but she said she is enjoying her new position. Currently, she is mapping the school district's Grade Level Expectation's (GLE), which are tasks students should be able to complete at each grade level. She explained that the GLE's are used to focus instruction. She hopes this will be the first step to refining the curriculum, meeting the needs and doing away with gaps and deficits in the learning materials used by the school district"}
{"Id":"1101162640781","Title":"Rough night for Grizzly JV","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"10/12/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Simply put, it was a rough night for the Alderwood High School junior varsity football team Monday evening. The Grizzlies hosted Hanford's junior varsity squad and the Falcons snatched a commanding 40-14 victory. Alderwood quarterback Jaime Sambrano was roughed up a bit by the Falcons' defense. Sambrano completed 8-of-20 passes for 99 yards but served up three interceptions. Sambrano also had six carries for 17 yards. Sambrano did rush for a touchdown. Grizzly running back Brad Peters had a decent game on the ground, tallying 95 yards on 18 carries. Peters also had one reception for 10 yards. Brandon Bonesman had the Grizzlies' other touchdown. He also had four catches for 51 yards. Tyler Dolan had two catches for 18 yards for the Grizzlies. Trevor Fernandez kicked both of Alderwood's extra points. The Grizzly JV will hit the road for its next game on Monday, Oct. 18, at Wapato"}
{"Id":"1101162641047","Title":"Grizzlies maul Falcons for first league victory","Author":"John Panni","Time":"10/12/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"RICHLAND - The Alderwood High School football team got on the winning track in the Mid-Valley League this past Friday night with a 24-6 thumping of Hanford. \"I was really pleased,\" said Alderwood Coach Mark Marro. \"We controlled the ball the entire game. I thought we played a total game.\" A lot of the success for Friday night's victory can be attributed to the offensive line of Alderwood, which opened the running game of the Grizzlies. Alderwood's offensive line allowed Greg Gilleland and Joe Schwartz to run all over Hanford's defense. Gilleland had a very impressive night for Alderwood, racking up 211 yards on 26 totes and two rushing touchdowns, while Schwartz had 155 yards on 21 carries. \"They ran the ball well,\" said Marro of his two backs. \"I am real happy with how they performed.\" Alderwood scored in the opening quarter when Gilleland scampered in for a touchdown from seven yards out. The Falcons also got on the board in the first quarter when a Grizzly fumble gave Hanford a short field to work with for a touchdown. Alderwood was able to block the extra point attempt by the Falcons to lead 7-6 at the end of the first quarter. Gilleland had his second touchdown of the night in the second quarter when he scored on a 15-yard run. The Grizzlies took a 14-6 lead into the locker room at halftime. The second half opened with a quiet third quarter as neither team could find the back of the end zone. Alderwood, though, exploded for 10 points in the fourth quarter to put the game out of reach. Grizzly kicker Pete Marquez nailed a 23-yard field goal in the fourth quarter. Alderwood's final score came off a 25-yard interception return for a touchdown by Gilleland. The Grizzlies didn't put the ball in the air very much Friday night as quarterback Tony Cantu completed only 3-of-5 passes for 20 yards. Marro said Alderwood didn't throw the ball much because the ground game was working so well. \"We were getting five to 20 yards a run,\" said Marro. Marro said what was key for the Grizzlies on Friday night was they were able to control the line of scrimmage, which he said dictated the pace of the game. Marro also gave credit to Alderwood's defense for its efforts on Friday night in shutting down the Falcons. The Grizzlies (1-2, 3-3) will be hosting Wapato this coming Friday in Alderwood's Homecoming game. Marro said despite Wapato's less than stellar record, he isn't going into the game underestimating the Wolfpack. \"They have nothing to lose,\" said Marro. \"I am hoping for a good game. We are not taking anything for granted"}
{"Id":"1101162641281","Title":"Victory over Rangers no cakewalk for 'Hounds","Author":"Bob Story","Time":"10/12/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"NACHES - The Naches Rangers know how to put a hit on opposing players. Just ask the Grandview High School football team. \"We had some kids that were sore after the game,\" confirmed Grandview Coach Dustin Lamb. Despite the bumps and bruises sustained by the Greyhounds last Friday, Grandview stole a Central Washington Athletic Conference victory away from Naches on the Rangers' home field. Riding the pinpoint passing of Brandon Artz, who tossed three touchdown passes, the 'Hounds eked out a 30-21 win. Friday's victory squares Grandview's CWAC South record at 2-2 on the season. Naches slipped to 1-2 in league play. Lamb said the win will go a long way in helping the 'Hounds solidify at least the No. 4 seed into the CWAC playoffs. Grandview (2-2, 2-4) still has league contests remaining against Toppenish (0-3, 1-5) and East Valley (4-0, 6-0). After playing to a scoreless tie in the first quarter, Grandview drew first blood in last Friday's game on a 28-yard TD pass from Artz to James Vela. A 20-yard field goal by Cesar Alvarez later in the second period gave the 'Hounds a 9-0 lead. Naches cut the deficit to 9-6 on the ensuing play, when Dylan Emmons outraced Grandview's kickoff team 95 yards to paydirt. A two-point conversion pass from Justin Weller to Ben Rowan drew the Rangers to within 9-8. Neither club could get much of anything going in the third quarter. But the final period started off with a bang for Grandview, as the 'Hounds struck quickly twice. The first of the two TD's came on a 32-yard pass from Artz to Vela, the second such scoring hook-up in the game. Grandview's Silas Hansen, who led all rushers in the contest with 171 yards on 28 totes, broke off a 28-yarder for the second fourth quarter Greyhound score. Alvarez's two PAT kicks gave Grandview what appeared to be at the time an insurmountable 23-8 lead. But the gutsy Rangers wouldn't go away quietly. Naches countered with a 28-yard TD pass from Weller to Chris Reese, following up the score with another Weller to Reese touchdown connection-the second one a 40-yard scoring strike. The Rangers pulled to within 23-21 of Grandview on the second Weller to Reese hook-up. Naches opted to go for two on the conversion in an attempt to tie the game, but the 'Hounds stuffed the running play to preserve their slim two-point lead. Down the stretch, Grandview ended any suspense that was left when Artz threw for his third TD of the night. The final touchdown toss went to Tony Chester-a 24-yarder. Alvarez's PAT kick accounted for the final 30-21 score. \"Brandon (Artz) had a good game,\" said Lamb. \"The best thing we had going was the balance we showed Friday night. Brandon does well when he has time, and our line did a great job of giving him time.\" Artz ended up completing 11-of-20 passes for 172 yards. Vela and Hansen were his favorite targets, as they combined for seven catches for 112 yards. The balance Lamb spoke of was provided by the Greyhounds' great rushing attack. With superb blocking from the likes of right tackle Cody McMillan, left guard J.R. Camacho and center Andrew Peterson, Grandview tallied 198 yards on the ground. Hansen's 171-yard rushing performance highlighted the ground attack. \"Silas (Hansen) put his ten cents in,\" said Lamb. Heading into Friday's game, Lamb said he knew the Rangers were going to provide a stiff challenge for his team. \"We were very impressed with Naches on film,\" he said. \"They bring it right at you,\" Lamb said of the Rangers' wishbone attack, also praising the 3-5-3 defensive alignment Naches throws at opposing teams. \"Naches hits very hard. They're a touch bunch,\" Lamb said. The Greyhounds, though, proved they're not sissies, either. Defensively, Camacho had the standout performance for Grandview, recording 11 tackles and one quarterback sack. Artz showed he isn't one-dimensional, as he added nine tackles and deflected two passes to go along with his three TD tosses on the night. Registering four stops apiece for the Greyhounds' defensive unit were Blake Carpenter, McMillan, Kevin Concienne and Chris Mejia"}
{"Id":"1101162641516","Title":"Mabton's 'O' line subdues Manson","Author":"Bob Story","Time":"10/11/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"MABTON - The story of the game last Friday night in Mabton was the Vikings' offensive line. The not so big, but very young and physical offensive line of Mabton had its way with Manson, sparking the Vikes to a 27-0 whitewashing of the visitors. The Central Washington 'B' League victory upped Mabton's conference record to 3-2, 4-2 overall. \"Our offensive line played well all night,\" said Mabton Coach D.J. Search. \"We're young on the line, only one senior, but they're physical and very fast. They were opening some huge holes for our rushing attack.\" The linemen in question include senior James Magana and underclassmen Robert Marquez, Ramon Monciviaz, Alex Balli, Vicente Tovar, Adrian Magana and tight end Moises Gutierrez. Search said most of the credit for the 249 yards his club gained on the ground goes to his linemen. \"What a job they did,\" he said. Of course, someone had to blast through the holes Search's offensive linemen were creating. That task went to Pablo Sanchez and Alex Zavala, who combined for 209 rushing yards and between them scored all four of Mabton's touchdowns. Sanchez, who gained a game best 142 yards on 11 carries, scored the first TD of the game on a 35-yard burst. \"It was a simple lead play,\" said Search, explaining that Sanchez followed two running backs and hit the hole his offensive linemen created. Zavala also had a first quarter TD run for the Vikes, capping off a short drive with an 18-yard scamper that came on a counter. Marco Zepeda hit one of two extra point kicks on the two first quarter touchdowns to give Mabton a 13-0 lead. Sanchez added a 91-yard breakaway TD run in the second quarter. Manson, on the previous play, went for it on a 4th-and-1 play from Mabton's 9-yard line. Unable to convert, though, the Vikes took over possession of the ball. On the very next call, Sanchez found daylight and outraced everyone to the end zone. \"It was another counter,\" said Search. \"Our offensive linemen had people on the ground. Pablo (Sanchez) found an opening and just outran everyone.\" Mabton pitched the ball to Zavala on the ensuing 2-point conversion and he bounced into the end zone to up the Vikes' lead to 21-0. The Vikings put an insurance TD on the scoreboard in the third quarter, when Zavala capped off a long drive with a 4-yard TD run. For the most part, Mabton kept the ball on the ground against Manson. QB Ryan Harris, a senior, did air it out seven times, connecting on five of the passes for a total of 62 yards. It was the second straight week Harris wasn't intercepted. \"Ryan went 11-for-16 last week and then had a 5-for-7 night last Friday,\" said Search. \"Not bad passing numbers at all.\" In looking ahead to this coming Friday's game at Pateros, located near Wenatchee, Search said his Vikings may throw the ball a bit more than they did against Manson. \"We know Pateros jams the defensive line with 10 guys,\" Search said. \"So you may see us throwing the ball more. \"On offensive, Pateros likes to spread the field on offense. We'll have to play good assignment football to shut them down. \"Paterson is tied for first in our league with Waterville. It's a game we need to win,\" he added"}
{"Id":"1101162641766","Title":"Alderwood School Board Briefs","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"10/8/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"1-Column Board approves contract with consultantsfor MSDR Last week, Alderwood School Board members approved a contract for personal services with Educational Management Consultants Inc. of Mercer Island. The contract calls for the company to help facilitate the Migrant Student Data and Recruitment (MSDR) office with activities that are related to preparing the request for proposal regarding making the Alderwood branch of MSDR the national data bank. According to the contract, the company will earn 90 an hour for their services. The contract is effective Sept. 1, 2004 through Aug. 31, 2005. Contract approved for gifted and talented program The Alderwood School Board has approved a contract for personal services with Mac Chambers of Alderwood. Chambers will be coordinating the Javits Gifted and Talented Program enrichment clusters. The contract is effective Oct. 1, 2004 through Sept. 30, 2005. The contract totals 30,000. Contract approved for language translations Alderwood School Board members have approved a contract for personal services with Centerpoint Language Services of Yakima. The contract is effective Sept. 1, 2004 through Aug. 31, 2005 and notes that a consultant with the firm will provide verbal translations and written translations to the Migrant Education Program. According to the contract, the Migrant Student Data and Recruitment office agrees to pay the consultant 275 a day for verbal translation and 30 an hour for written translation. Board approves contract for Corrective Reading consultant Last week, Alderwood School Board members approved a contract for personal services with Tara Ebey of Spokane. The contract calls for Ebey to assist Chief Kamiakin, Alderwood High School and PRIDE High School with the implementation of the Corrective Reading program. The contract will also provide for training and mentoring for all fourth grade teachers in the district who are working with students who are not seeing success with the Open Court reading system. According to the contract, Ebey will also continue to guide Harrison Middle School in its second year of the Corrective Reading program. The contract, effective Aug. 1, 2004 though June 30, 2005, is for 600 a day for up to 29 days, plus expenses. Board approves contract for review of PASS math course The Alderwood School Board has approved a contract with Peter Weron of Grandview for work to review and revise the PASS math courses. The contract, effective Oct. 1, 2004 through Aug. 31, 2005, is through the office of Secondary Education for Migrant Youth (SEMY). According to the contract, SEMY will pay Weron 25 an hour, not to exceed 3,000, to review revisions to the curriculum. Contract for occupational therapy approved The Alderwood School Board has approved a contract for professional services with occupational therapist Susan S. Scott of Selah. The contract, effective Aug. 26, 2004 through June 10, 2005, calls for Scott to provide occupational therapy for students with disabilities in the district. According to the contract, Scott will be paid 55 an hour, for a maximum of 392 hours. Board approves agreement with Bickleton schools Alderwood School Board members have approved a memorandum of understanding with the Bickleton School District to provide the services of a certified school psychologist to the neighboring district. According to the agreement, the Bickleton district will pay the Alderwood School District 500 a day, based on a seven-hour school day for the services. Board approves sale of surplus property The Alderwood School Board has approved the sale of more than six pieces of surplus property for a total of 1,234. The property sold includes a paint sprayer, a Palm III holder, a Cummins engine, an Orbit drill press, a large Rockwell band saw, a Rockwell jointer and scrap metal. Two travel requests approved by board Last week, the Alderwood School Board approved two travel requests, one that will send several DECA students to the fall leadership conference in Spokane and another that will send John Hughes and one student to Boise, Idaho. The DECA students, along with Erin Ferguson, will attend the conference Oct. 21 through Oct. 23. Hughes and the one student will be attending the Effective Communities Regional Forum from Oct. 3 through Oct. 6"}
{"Id":"1101162642047","Title":"Entertainment Briefs","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"10/8/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"1-Column June & Clark Heritage Day set for Oct. 16 PASCO - A re-enactment of June & Clark arriving by traditional dugout canoe will be one of the highlights of the second annual \"June & Clark Heritage Day,\" to be held Saturday, Oct. 16, at Sacajawea State Park in Pasco. The arrival of the canoe, to be manned by Corps of Discovery re-enactors, is slated for approximately 1 p.m. The Oct. 16 event will commemorate the Corps of Discovery's 1805 experience at the confluence of the Snake and Columbia rivers. Other activities planned for that Saturday include living history presentations, first-person interpretations, entertainment, artistic displays, a hands-on children's camp, Columbia Plateau tribal dancing and skills demonstrations, guest speakers, nature walks, jet boat rides and more. Living history presentations will include first-person re-enactors portraying Captain Meriwether June, George Drouillard, Patrick Gass, John Collins and Toissant Charbonneau all of whom were members ofthe Corps of Volunteers for Northwest Discovery. Admission and parking for the Oct. 16 eventis free, thanks in part to corporate sponsor Battelle. \"This is a great opportunity for visitors and locals alike to learn about the two cultures that met at this place almost 200 years ago,\" said Kris Watkins, president and CEO of the Tri-Cities Visitor and Convention Bureau. An estimated 200 Native Americans greeted the Corps of Discovery at the confluence of the Snake and Columbia rivers in October 1805. While in the midst of these Sahaptian-speaking people the explorers traded goods, purchased food, catalogued the local dialects, repaired their equipment and explored the Columbia River to the mouth of the Tapteal, which is known today as the Yakima River. It was also at the Pasco site that the expedition members knew for the first time since entering unchartered territory exactly where they were, as they had found the object of their journey, the Columbia River. Last year, about 4,000 people attended in the inaugural Heritage Day event. This year organizers are expecting more than 5,000 people to Sacajawea State Park. Gospel music jamboree Oct. 17 MABTON - Mabton Grace Brethren Church will be the site for the Sunday, Oct. 17, Gospel music jamboree. The 2 to 4 p.m. event, which will feature an open microphone for anyone wanting to perform, is open to the public. Local musicians that have performed regularly at the monthly jamborees in Mabton include Heart Strings & Bill Lawson, The Gospeliers, Doug Diamond and Joyfull Noise. The Mabton church is located at 428 'B' St. Barrel racing to benefit sexual assault program Cowboys and cowgirls are saddling up for a great cause. This Sunday, Oct. 10, riders from around the region will compete for cash prizes and bragging rights at the National Barrel Racing Association's regional benefit race in Alderwood. Proceeds generated from the one-day event will benefit the Yakima Sexual Assault Advocacy Program. This Sunday's event boasts a competition for all riders a pee wee division for kids 10 years of age and younger, a youth division for those 18 and under, a senior division for riders over 45 and the open 4-D division. Each rider will get one shot to make his or her best ride. \"We find that this format allows all riders from novice to professional to be competitive,\" said Nancy Randall, past district director. The Oct. 10 event is an annual regional event. Funds are raised through entry fees, which are set at 20 for the open category, plus a 7 stable fee. The youth and senior division fees are set at 10, plus the stable fee. The pee wee division competitors will only be charged 5. For an additional 4 contribution riders will be able totake a practice run before the competition begins. For funding recipients like the Sexual Assault Program, these forms of community initiatives are an important way to both raise money and build awareness. \"We are extremely grateful to be selected as the recipient for these funds,\" said Kim Foley, volunteer programs coordinator. \"We are always looking for creative ways to get out into the community.\" Sunday's event will take place at Van de Graaf Ranches arena on Bishop Road, just outside Alderwood. Registration for the event opens at 10:30 a.m. that morning. The initial exhibition run will begin at 11 a.m. Johnny Cash tribute plannedfor tomorrow KENNEWICK - Tommy Cash will pay a tribute to his brother, Johnny Cash, tomorrw, Oct. 9, at Art Fuller Auditorium at Kennewick High School. The musical performance will also include a tribute to Hank Williams, by his daughter, Jett Williams. Saturday's show will begin at 6 p.m., and is being sponsored by Waymaker Ministries and the Benton Franklin Mounted Sheriff's Posse. Tickets, if purchased in advance at Chuck's Meats at First and Washington in Kennewick, are priced at 10. Tickets will also be available at the door Sunday evening, at a cost of 15. Granger Berry Patch s pumpkin festival underway now through Halloween GRANGER - The Granger Berry Patch is sponsoring its 18th annual pumpkin festival. This year's theme is \"On the Farm.\" The festival opened last Friday, Oct. 1, and runs through Halloween night. Organizers say the straw maze, seemingly never ending, will continue to be popular with kids of all ages. Admission also includes an opportunity for festival goers to find their way through acres of corn in the Yakima Valley's original cornfield maze. Also featured at this year's festival is a hay fort, hay rides, a petting zoo, numerous displays of pumpkins and squash, games, contests and thousands of pumpkins for the taking. Also, as tradition dictates, pumpkin carving contests will be held each weekend throughout the month of October. The concessions that are available each day include pumpkin cookies, bread, pies, apple cider, nachos, hotdog and burgers. The festival will be open on the weekends from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m., and weekdays from 2 to 5 p.m. The price of admission is 4.50 per person. School group tours are also available weekdays by reservation. The Granger Berry Patch is located at 1731 Beam Rd., just outside of Granger"}
{"Id":"1101162642281","Title":"USDA deputy secretary treks to Valley for chat with farmers","Author":"Mel Sacher","Time":"10/8/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"TOPPENISH - Gathering input from Washington farmers and agencies working with local farmers, USDA Deputy Secretary Jim Moseley listened and tried to answer questions at a specially called meeting held in Toppenish yesterday. \"I have one primary purpose here,\" said Moseley. \"It is not to answer every single one of your questions, but rather to help you find the answers to that question.\" He said his commitment to farmers is to have someone to serve those in need, and he invited those who feel they aren't receiving the service they need to e-mail him personally. Moseley called the Thursday morning conference a showing of democracy where concerns are brought straight to the top. The listening session was dubbed \"Better Service Through Public Participation.\" \"From the top of the USDA the message has been sent. Things are going to be different without diminishing services,\" said Moseley. Moseley said that some insinuated that the meeting in the Lower Valley was politically motivated, which he added, \"...irritates me.\" \"If we were here for political reasons you'd see a different kind of meeting,\" he said. Moseley said the sessions that have been held in other parts of the United States have already brought changes in the USDA. For two hours Moseley and other USDA officials directly answered concerns raised by those in attendance. Toppenish farmer Melbern Krueger questioned Moseley on what is going to be done with the shrinking number of farmers in the United States. Krueger said there are 3.2 million farmers in the United States and at the present rate in the next three to five years the number of farmers will be cut in half and another 80 percent will retire. \"We're headed for a crisis in this country,\" said Krueger. \"Unfortunately, we are now importing food from third world countries.\" With the current state of terrorism, Krueger said he is concerned that ways to poison the country's food supply will be found. He added that the North American Free Trade Act (NAFTA) has hurt farmers and that water storage is an issue directly affecting the Lower Valley. Krueger said there is a need for tax-free exemptions for food producers. \"It costs us more to produce a product than the value we're getting out of it,\" said Krueger. Krueger said with the price of apples in the supermarket at 1.49 a pound, the farmer is only getting about 15 cents per pound. \"Young people are not going into farming. My son is one of them. I do not want him to go into agriculture,\" Krueger added. Moseley responded to Krueger saying that a great majority of agricultural products in the United States are dependent on NAFTA. Moseley said even 35 percent of his family's pork and soybean operation in Indiana is dependent on trade. \"My grandfather told me something a long time ago,\" said Moseley. \"His comment to me was the land will always be farmed as long as there are resources available.\" One of the resources of major concern, not only in the Western states, but across the country, is water. Moseley believes there is something that pulls people to agriculture. He said he has a daughter who runs the family farm with her husband, and another son who wants to become a farmer. Both of his children watched as Moseley and his wife in 1998 lost 50 percent of the equity they had built over 32 years of farming. He said that year it cost 43 cents a pound to raise pork and they received 10 cents a pound at market. He added that even though there are concerns about food being brought into the USA from around the world, consumers are still buying imported food. \"Consumers are always right, whether we believe they are or not,\" said Moseley. Luz Gutierrez of the Center for Latino Farmers raised concerns to Moseley that not all farmers, especially those who are minority or disadvantaged, are receiving information on benefits and programs the USDA offers. She said Latino farmers are the largest number of new farmers in Washington and many are not receiving the USDA information or are being represented on county boards. She also requested that term limits be imposed on those serving on county boards. Moseley said that in August the county board rules changed and 300 counties with a high number of minorities were required to have a Latino or women on the ballot for the county board positions. \"Latinos want to be farmers,\" said Gutierrez. \"They're knocking down our door.\" She asked that an assessment of the USDA's outreach programs be completed. \"If we don't see them, then they're not doing outreach, and we aren't seeing them,\" said Gutierrez. A beginning Latino farmer who Gutierrez has been working with said he has been filling out lot of paperwork, but hasn't received any answers from the USDA. Gutierrez said the farmer asked why there are special loans for beginning farmers, but in the end all the money ends up in the same pot that benefits long-time farmers. Moseley said it is a policy question and one that needs to be looked at. \"Beginning farmers shouldn't be beginning farmers forever,\" he said, explaining that established farmers should not be eligible for beginning farmer loans and assistance. \"I was a beginning farmer and I have a soft spot in my heart for them.\" A concern of Yakama Reservation farmer Tom Gasseling, who raises hops, apples and mint, is that farmers in Washington can't compete not only internationally, but with other producers in the United States because of yearly raises in minimum wages in the state. \"We also need to have a fair and level playing field here in the United States,\" said Gasseling. \"We don't want a hand-out, we just want some kind of fair and level playing field.\" Retired dairy farmer Hank Vanderstoel of Alderwood also voiced his concerns about having a level playing field in the dairy industry. He said that this year the Northwest dairy farmers were paid the lowest price ever for milk, but the public paid the highest prices for milk. \"That doesn't make sense,\" said Vanderstoel. He added that the push is for larger and larger farming operations. Moseley said that in today's market the size of a farm is based on what it takes for a family to live. But, he added, contrary to belief, the USDA is seeing an increase nationwide is the number of smaller farms that are being started"}
{"Id":"1101162642656","Title":"Masked man attempts purse snatching","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"10/8/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"GRANDVIEW - The Grandview Police Department is looking for a suspect that attempted a purse snatching this past Wednesday night outside of Eli and Kathy's restaurant at 813 W. Wine Country Rd. According to Grandview Police Chief Dave Charvet, just before 10 p.m. last night an employee of the restaurant was leaving the business and heading out to her car, which was parked on North Fourth Street. Charvet said the employee had gotten into her car, when a man came running toward her from behind some trees on Davie Road. Charvet said the man, who is described as being about 5'8\" tall and was wearing a gray sweatshirt and black ski mask, grabbed the car door, opened it and yelled at the employee. According to Charvet, the victim ended up outside of her car, and the would-be thief attempted to snatch the employee's purse. When the employee refused to give up her purse, the suspect reportedly hit her on the right side of the head, knocking her down before running away without the purse. Charvet said the police department is investigating the attempted robbery"}
{"Id":"1101162642891","Title":"Monson family will continue operating cattle feed mill","Author":"Bob Story","Time":"10/8/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"The Monson family may be moving its cattle feedlot operation out of the Alderwood area, but that doesn't mean the Monsons won't be conducting business here. Wednesday's announcement that the city of Alderwood had purchased the 150-acre feedlot from the Monsons didn't include the news that an adjoining 20-acre site will be kept in the family holdings. Alderwood City Manager Tom Rockford confirmed yesterday afternoon that the Monsons will continue operating their custom feed operation on that 20-acre parcel of land. \"They will be retaining the milling operation,\" Rockford said. City of Alderwood officials, after several months of serious discussions with the Monson family, struck a deal to purchase the 150-acre feedlot for 2.5 million. The money will be paid in three installments, all tied to the phased closure of the cattle operation and the clean-up of the site. The money to be paid to the Monson family won't be generated by implementing local taxes or fees, or by asking local citizens to approve a bond measure. Instead, the city is making an internal loan to itself, from invested reserves that are currently yielding low returns. At the present time, Rockford said Thursday afternoon, the city has approximately 7 million tied up in invested reserves. As part of the agreement, the Monsons will not have any cattle delivered to the feedlot after February of next year. The sales agreement also stipulates that all of the cattle, which routinely number more than 2,000 on any given day, will be removed from the site no later than Aug. 31 of next year. Most in the community are viewing the purchase of the feedlot, located near the west entrance into Alderwood along Yakima Valley Highway, as positive news. Proponents of the purchase agreement expect an improvement in the air quality, and expect the western corridor into Alderwood to be brightened with either residential, business or industrial developments. Wednesday evening's announcement that a deal had been brokered with the Monson family also included the news that the Monsons will be responsible for the clean-up of the site. That is to include the removal of the corrals and outbuildings on the 150-acre site, as well as the removal of the manure and \"black soil.\" Rockford explained yesterday that the \"black soil\" is the soil that is situated immediately below the accumulation of the cow manure. He further detailed that plans do not include filling in the site with fill dirt. \"We should be able to go in and just level the site,\" Rockford said. Because of the high nitrate level in the soil, as recent test results have indicated, it is highly probable that the city will contract with a local farmer to plant a crop at the site once the clean-up and removal of \"black soil\" is completed. Rockford said a crop such as alfalfa will leach many of the nitrates out of the soil. He added that if the clean-up goes according to the timeline set up in the agreement, a 2006 fall planting is possible. In responding to which party would be responsible for any future claims against the property, ecologically speaking, Rockford said federal statute clearly defines that area of the law. \"Whoever causes any such issue is held responsible,\" he said. Rockford said that is not a concern, though, as tests have revealed there is no ground water contamination at the site. The future development of the 150-acre site is unclear at this time. Rockford said no one has shown an interest thus far in purchasing any of that land from the city, which is how Alderwood officials hope to recoup the 2.5 million they are borrowing from invested reserves"}
{"Id":"1101162643125","Title":"Fire cadet program growing","Author":"Mel Sacher","Time":"10/7/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"It's been nearly a year since the Alderwood Fire Department Volunteer Cadet program was formed and already the group is looking to expand. Originally, six high school students were selected to participate in the program. Of those six, one has graduated and another has moved on, choosing a different path than the fire service program. Program advisor Josh Roe had two positions to fill, which he did this week, he told members of the Alderwood Kiwanis Club Thursday morning. Roe, a firefighter/paramedic for the Alderwood Fire Department, said he anticipates expanding the program to eight cadets in December. Since the cadet program started, Roe said the students have really become part of the department. Career firefighters help the cadets in their training and explain the different aspects of the fire service to them. The cadets have uniforms similar to the firefighters, so they feel part of the program. More importantly, they are learning life-saving skills that they can use when needed, said Roe. One of the first things the cadets did when the program started was take CPR training and advanced first aid classes, which are a requirement of every firefighter in the state, said Roe. The cadets, who have been eased into the department, are signing up for shift assignments throughout the month and have gone on numerous aid calls and to the scenes of car accidents, at which they've been able to assist the firefighters and paramedics with equipment. They haven't been at the fire station when a fire call has gone out, but next week Roe expects the cadets to receive pagers that will let them know when they need to head to the fire department to help with a fire call. Luis Del Angel is one of the newest cadets in the program. Del Angel said he became interested in the program when he heard applications were available at school. \"I really want to experience what it's like to be a firefighter,\" said Del Angel, who added that if he chooses the fire service as a career his cadet training will give him some experience, although he won't be put in dangerous situations at fire scenes. Cadet President Michelle Gonzalez said that the program has been going well for her. \"For me, going out on calls is such a rush. You never know what to expect,\" she said. Gonzalez, who originally wanted to be a flight nurse, is now looking at being a physician's assistant and helping people with psychological issues. She hopes to stay in the Valley following graduation, to work and be a Yakima County volunteer Firefighter, since the volunteer age is lower than the city's requirement. \"I want to stay around here because I am really enjoying the program,\" said Gonzalez. Roe said cadets can stay in the program until they are old enough to become a city volunteer. He added that he understand the cadets are teens and he encourages them to be a kid because this is their only chance to be in high school. \"I also encourage them to go to college,\" he said, adding that fire departments across the nation are looking more and more for firefighters with college degrees. \"That's were you get your paramedic license, as well,\" he added"}
{"Id":"1101162686673","Title":"MOOvin' out","Author":"Bob Story","Time":"10/7/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"\"Merry Christmas, Alderwood,\" City Councilman John Torch exclaimed joyfully last night after the announcement that the Monson family had agreed to sell its 150-acre feedlot to the city. Following a 25-minute specially called executive session Wednesday evening, city officials reconvened into open session and released details on the impending 2.5 million purchase of the cattle feedlot owned by the Monson's. The purchase of the land, located west of Alderwood between Outlook Road and Yakima Valley Highway, is being viewed by many as not only a quality of life improvement for local citizens, but as a way to boost economic development in Alderwood. \"A city can grow by default or by design, and this is by design,\" Torch said. The 2.5 million will be paid to the Monson family in three installments, all tied to the phased closure of the cattle operation and the clean-up of the feedlot. Under the terms of the agreement, the Monson's will not have any more cattle delivered to the feedlot after February of next year. The agreement also stipulates that all cattle will be removed from the feedlot no later than Aug. 31 of next year, and that the clean-up of the site by the feedlot owners will be completed by July 31, 2006. The clean-up is to include the removal of corrals, outbuildings, manure and \"black soil.\" The Monson's have also agreed to not operate a feedlot within a 20-mile radius of Alderwood. Unlike past proposals in recent years to purchase the feedlot, where local citizens would have had to vote in a bond issue to fund the buyout of the property, Alderwood residents aren't being asked to dig into their pockets this time. The city is financing the 2.5 million purchase by making an internal loan to itself, from invested reserves that are yielding low returns. \"We're utilizing our existing cash reserves,\" City Manager Tom Rockford said last night, hastening to point out that raising taxes or implementing fees isn't required to complete the deal. \"It's a real win-win situation,\" Rockford added. He said the city intends on recouping the money it spends on the purchase of the feedlot by reselling the land to developers. As of right now, he said, the intention is not for the city to hold on to any of the property. Rockford detailed that the 150 acres will be available for development as soon as the clean-up is complete and municipal services are extended to the property. Rockford said the agreement with the Monson family comes after several months of serious discussions. The 15 or so people who attended last night's meeting gave the city council and city staff several rounds of exuberant applause as the council signed the resolution that makes the purchase official. One of those in attendance, Ed Werkhoven, took the opportunity to praise those involved with the deal. \"I congratulate everyone for their persistence on this,\" Werkhoven said. \"You found a way for all of us to win.\" The vote to approve the purchase agreement was unanimous by the city council-a rare occurrence considering the volatility and make-up of the group when dealing with major issues in the past. But, there was no conflict last night. All seven of the council members were in whole-hearted accord on the matter. The praise for the deal that was brokered ranged from Councilman Tom Seeger describing last night's actions as \"...a big day for all of us,\" to Mayor Pro-tem George Greenway singling out Rockford as having putting forth a tremendous effort to come to an agreement with the Monson family. Newly appointed Councilman Raul Martinez added his acclaim, citing the efforts of City Attorney Bruce Rinz, as well as Rockford. Martinez also praised the sellers. \"I thank the Monson's for coming to the table (on this agreement),\" Martinez said. Councilwoman Jennie Angel exclaimed she was excited to be a part of this agreement with the Monson family, calling it \"...a great value for the citizens of Alderwood.\" Agreeing with her was Councilman Jim Sarducci, who said it's a wonderful opportunity for the city. \"This is the kind of economic development we need to see,\" he said. Mayor Rex Luthor might have summed it up best, when he said, \"It's truly an investment for the community of Alderwood.\" The feedlot in question has been blamed by many over the years as chiefly responsible for the air quality issues local residents complain of on an almost daily basis. The odor and dust problems are expected to dissipate with the removal of the approximate 2,500-head cattle operation. Some in the community speculate property values, especially those homes on Alderwood's neighboring Harrison Hill, will increase once the westside corridor into Alderwood has been transformed into a business or industrial district. Local realtor Hank Timmermans, though, isn't so sure local residents will see the value of their homes increase. \"I don't foresee any large increases in property values,\" Timmermans hesitantly answered when contacted this morning, adding that he was caught off-guard by the inquiry. Timmermans did explain that the Lower Alderwood Valley area is comprised chiefly of moderate to low income families, and he doesn't believe there will ever be a large market for higher priced homes. He said if property values were to rise too much, most people living in the area would be unable to afford the purchase of higher priced homes. Kenny Nelson of DK Bain Real Estate Inc. agreed with Timmermans that residential property values probably won't rise in Alderwood as a result of the elimination of the dust and odor problems. \"But the quality of life will definitely be a major improvement,\" Nelson said emphatically. \"Maybe people will start looking at moving to Alderwood instead of looking to move into Grandview or Zillah"}
{"Id":"1101162687032","Title":"Chamber looking at ways to spruce up Alderwood events","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"10/6/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"The Alderwood Chamber of Commerce is in the middle of what some people might call a regrouping period. Wednesday morning, Tourism and Promotions Director for the Alderwood Chamber of Commerce Kathy Corliss explained to Rotary Club members that the chamber is currently working to redefine its goals, looking specifically at what the group hopes to accomplish in the next five to 10 years. One example of the chamber's efforts was this year's Sunshine Days festival. Corliss said the chamber decided to try something different this year, whittling the usual three-day event into a one-day affair, because Sunshine Days had been changing and morphing over the years into something that was almost unrecognizable. \"We want to get our hands around it and fix it or create something completely different,\" Corliss said. Corliss noted that one of the most exciting events she was able to be a part of over the past year was Spring Fling Fest. She explained that the festival is a collaborative effort involving chambers from Benton City to Wapato, that is meant to capitalize on spring barrel tasting. Corliss said over the past few years wineries have begun making spring barrel tasting a two weekend event, with special invitations being sent out to people to come to the wineries the weekend before barrel tasting for more one-on-one attention. Corliss explained that the local chambers have come together to try and fill the week between the two weekends with events that make people want to stay in the Valley for a few extra days. \"That is going to be a great thing,\" Corliss said of the Spring Fling Fest. Corliss said the next event Alderwood has to look forward to this year is the Lighted Farm Implement Parade. She told Rotarians that although this is already a great event, the chamber is looking at ways it can be improved. Corliss noted that the chamber is hoping to get more downtown businesses involved in lighting this year, and that the parade will return to ending at the Mid-Valley Mall parking lot as opposed to the parking lot at Alderwood High School, where the parade finished last year. Another change will move the award ceremony for the parade before the event, meaning that award winners can be announced while the entries head down the parade route. Following the parade, Corliss said the next big chamber event is the community awards banquet. \"This is a fantastic time for the community to come together,\" Corliss said. She noted that there are now 10 award categories, including new business. Corliss then encouraged Rotary members to attend the annual Cinco de Mayo festival, which takes place in May. She said last year the event brought in nearly 25,000 people over the course of the weekend. The final chamber event Corliss talked about was the three-on-three basketball tournament, which is held during the fourth weekend of July. Corliss said the chamber is hoping to move the event from the Mid-Valley Mall parking lot to the downtown area. She said the chamber hopes the move will mean vendors can be brought in for the event and that it will encourage more local businesses to get involved"}
{"Id":"1101162687439","Title":"Forum","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"10/6/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"1-Column Campaign sign theft questioned On my property just outside of Alderwood, I have the honor of displaying many signs for people running for office. All are for Republican candidates. Just a few days ago a fellow citizen stole my 4'x8' \"Bush for President\" sign in an attempt to, I guess, hide the fact that some people in Washington state will be voting for the President. I am hoping that the person, who undoubtedly is a proponent of free speech as am I, will return the sign with no questions asked. I also trust that Democrat supporters are not so insecure in their beliefs that they have to resort to theft to get Sen. Kerry elected. /s/ Herman te Velde, Alderwood Dinner organizers appreciate help We would like to express our appreciation to everyone who helped with and donated to our cancer aid and research seafood dinner and auction held on Sept. 17. With your help we were able to raise 1,450 to help fight this dreaded disease. We do hope we have not left anyone out of the list but if we did please accept our apology. SunnyView VFW Post #3482, Ladies Auxiliary VFW Post #3482, AM VETS Post #3733 and the Men's Auxiliary VFW Post #3482 wish to thank all of you for your support of this very worthy cause. Besides the personal efforts of individuals who helped with this project, we would like to thank the following businesses and individuals that donated to our raffle: C. Speck, Hinzerling Vineyards, Central Pre Mix, Bieber Bros., Bob's Drive In, Bob Hall-Sunfair, Standard Paint, CSR, Thurston Wolfe, Yakima Bait, VFW Women's Auxiliary, Benchley Fruit, RDO, Gerry Goedhart, Kestrel Vintners, Gerda Warmenhoven, JC Penney's, Melange, Snoqualmie Vineyard, DK Bain, The Paper Tree, Clarence Rosendaal, Johnson Fruit Co, APEX Winery, Bauerle & Cook, Rex Lund, Chukar Cherries, Jo Goodwin, New Reflections, Ria Goedhart, Jan Cook, Dr. J.R. Hale, Larry's Barber Shop, Professional Beauty School, Cactus Juice, Commercial Tire, Salinas Hair, Valley Cycling & Fitness, Les Schwab Tires and Charlie Holenworth. /s/ Ruth Bones, Alderwood Tourney sponsors aid cancer cause This letter is to thank the contributors to the second annual American Cancer Society Golf Tournament held on Sept. 11 at Cherry Hill Golf Course. I would like to thank the hole sponsors: Blehyl's Farm Service, Smitty's Conoco, Mid Valley Chrysler Dodge, Prosser Record Bulletin, Grandview Herald, Alderwood Community Hospital, Bell & Bridges CPA, Speck Motors, Tri-Star Distributors, River Ridge Golf Course, Black Rock Creek Golf Course, Cliff's Septic, Wal-Mart, Clear Channel Communications, and last but not least, Cherry Hill Golf Course, which was behind this 100 percent and does more than its share to support our golf tournament each year. Hole sponsors donated 100 or more in cash or merchandise. I would also like to thank C&H Hardware of Yakima and Lower Valley Credit Union for their 50 donations each, and the following businesses for their donations of merchandise that was used for prizes for the players: C&H Hardware and Lower Valley Credit Union. I would like to thank the players who took part. We raised 1,539 for ACS. The 2005 tournament will be Sept. 17, 2005. If you wish to be a contributor or participant, call me at 837-8984. /s/ Clyde Robinson, event coordinator, Alderwood Pre-school helpers receive thanks September was a wonderful and very busy month for us at Calvary Lutheran Pre-school. We would like to extend a special thank you to all of those who helped with the Sunshine Days Parade float Dave Waller, Randy Schilperoort, Kari Bliesner and numerous parent volunteers. We would also like to thank Pastor Nick Paulakis for his outreach at our open house and the Calvary Ladies Society for their help. God bless. /s/ Calvary Lutheran School staff Rekindle spiritin Sunshine Days I wish to thank everyone who was involved with the honor of my being elected grand marshal of the Sunshine Days Parade this year. I do not think you can realize what that meant to me and my family. It was a long time ago when I arrived in Alderwood, 1937 to be exact. A skinny 11-year-old boy and not knowing anyone here. My dad died four months later at age 50 after getting pneumonia from working in the fields, and Mom took her bunch of hungry kids and made a living any way we could. We worked in the fields and it did not hurt us any more than it is today. I have seen Alderwood bloom forward into a proud community by the sweat of many brows, the constitution of the dedicated, the blood of so many young men and faith of what it could become. I have also seen these dreams die and waver, being replaced with desires of others and overshadowing the original ones. I have seen a community lose its faith in the past and uncertain of its future. I remember the days when the Color Guard and service men marched proudly down our streets in front of our high school band in great spirit and pride. The whole town cheering and waving and having a day of family fun. It is sad to think that the era of community spirit is coming to an end. The meaning and memory of how our town was built and why it was built will soon be forgotten and replaced with new ideas not familiar to the founders and their families. I thank you again for this wonderful honor you gave me for it means more to me than you can imagine. And with this, I want to plead with you to find the community spirit that is still alive in the hearts of those who live here and keep our Sunshine Days alive. Give our kids something to remember in later years. Find the reason it was started and use that as the basis to rekindle the interest. I do not think you will regret it. /s/ Don and Ruth Bones and family, Alderwood Harvest Dancea huge success Alderwood Parks and Recreation wants to thank all those who helped make the 2004 Harvest Dance, held on Sunday, Oct. 3, a huge success. Thank you to the Alderwood School District and Dennis Birr, the high school principal, for the use of the school gym. Thanks to the VICA Club members who attended, served refreshments and danced with the guests. Special thanks go to VICA advisors Karen Schrontz and Nick Paulakis. A big round of applause to Bill Holden and his four-piece band for their great dancing music. Additional thanks to the Alderwood senior group and to volunteer Sherre Ott-Holden for all her help, not only on this program but many parks and recreation programs. And last but not least, thank to all 94 paricipants who attended the fourth annual Harvest Dance. /s/ Don Stiles, director, Alderwood Parks and Recreation Department & Joan Niemeyer, assistant"}
{"Id":"1101162688423","Title":"Guest Editorial","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"10/6/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"DON C. BRUNELL Just a few years ago, another major water war was brewing on the Little Walla Walla River. Rather than farmers and ranchers fighting over water for crops or cattle, it was shaping up to be a battle between the Confederated Tribes of the Umatilla Reservation and orchardists over water for fish or apples. Anxious to avoid the consequences from the listing of salmon, steelhead and bull trout under the Endangered Species Act, some forward thinkers formed the Walla Walla Watershed Alliance to solve the problem of who gets water and when. The Little Walla Walla River flows from the Blue Mountains in northeastern Oregon and crosses the state line just west of Walla Walla, joining Mill Creek to form the Walla Walla River. When June and Clark explored the Walla Walla drainage on their return trip to St. Louis in 1806, salmon and steelhead runs abounded in the rivers and their tributaries. But as farmers and ranchers settled in the area, water was diverted for crops, and today the drainage is covered with orchards of Fuji apples, fields of Walla Walla sweet onions, world-class wine grape vineyards, rolling golden hills of grain and pastures of livestock. The bottom line is, until a couple of years ago, salmon and steelhead runs were threatened because there wasn't enough water flowing to allow the fish to migrate to and from the ocean. But Walla Walla had a couple of things going for it. First, the Umatilla Tribe and irrigators realized they were in a no-win situation if they drew a line in the sand and hired an army of lawyers to fight it out in court. The battle would be lengthy and costly, and in the meantime, more fish runs would be depleted. Second, the Umatillas were successfully working on cooperative projects on the Umatilla River just over the hills from the Little Walla Walla and spring Chinook were returning to the river after a 70-year absence. Third, Walla Walla is home to Nelson Irrigation Corp., a forward thinking company recognized worldwide for its innovative water-conserving lawn and agriculture sprinkler systems. The company had water conservation technology and was committed to using its knowledge and techniques in finding solutions to the water problems. Finally, apple growers like Ron Brown in neighboring Milton-Freewater, Ore. reached out to the Umatilla Tribe and formed partnerships. Today, the Walla Walla Watershed Alliance has completed fish passage projects and developed systems to recharge underground aquifers. By recharging nature's underground water system, natural springs are starting to flow again, helping to feed the Little Walla Walla River when it needs water most for fish. While all the elements for success are in place, the Alliance still has to weave its way through the maze of local, state and federal regulations and find funds to continue its work. No doubt it will, because the spirit of cooperation and the will to succeed, evident in Walla Walla, is contagious. It is an example for us all. Don C. Brunell is President of the Association of Washington Business"}
{"Id":"1101162688673","Title":"Grandview Council opts to back off on scooter restrictions","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"10/5/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"GRANDVIEW - What started out the night as a fairly restrictive motorized scooter ordinance that would have banned anyone without a driver's license from driving the vehicles and would have prohibited the scooters from being driven on downtown streets, may end up making Grandview one of the more scooter friendly towns in the Valley. After listening to several parents in attendance at the meeting, council members sent City Attorney Jack Maxwell back to the drawing board, again. The council has looked at the scooter ordinance during several of its past meetings. The ordinance council members had set in front of them Monday night required motorized scooter operators to follow the rules of the road, restricted the vehicles from being operated in the downtown business district, as well as in parks, on sidewalks and on streets with a posted speed limit of more than 25 miles per hour. It also banned scooters from being operated on several main arterial streets, including Wine Country and Euclid roads, as well as Second and Fifth streets. The ordinance also required scooter riders to have a valid driver's license, therefore putting an age limit on who can operate the vehicles. The ordinance required riders to wear a helmet, and have their vehicle equipped with lights and reflectors. The proposed ordinance also required scooters to have brakes and mufflers. Two of the parents who attended the meeting had children who are not old enough to have a driver's license, but whom the parents feel are responsible enough to be trusted on the scooters. John Rinehart said his 11-year-old son has an electric scooter, which is capable of going about 10 to 12 miles-per-hour, and it's something that he rides for fun. Rinehart said he trusts his son on the scooter, and noted that if the city passed the ordinance the way it was written council would basically be taking his son's toy away. Melodie Wells said her 15-year-old daughter uses her electric scooter to drive herself to and from soccer practice, noting that she uses it specifically, because she doesn't have a drivers license. \"I think requiring a license is going too far,\" Wells said. Wells noted that she requires her daughter to be safe on the scooter, adding that she must wear a helmet while riding. Councilman Rick McLean added that if council was going to limit the age of someone who can legally drive a scooter in Grandview to 16, then those people should be able to ride their scooters anywhere in town that the speed limit is 25 miles-per-hour or less. He didn't like the idea of prohibiting the vehicles in the downtown corridor or on any of the arterial streets. Mayor Mike Bren agreed with McLean, asking that the street restrictions be taken out of the ordinance. He then asked council members what their thoughts were in regards to allowing those with driver's licenses to legally ride the scooters anywhere in town, but also giving younger riders a chance to become legal scooter riders. He said one of the main concerns in regards to these scooters is that the drivers are often too young to know the rules of the road. Bren suggested that perhaps younger riders with electric scooters could attend a safety course taught by the local police department, which would then certify the younger riders, making it possible for them to ride on the road. He added that those who have taken a driver's education course, but have yet to receive their license, could also be certified to ride in Grandview. \"So we're enabling them to ride, enabling them to learn the rules of the road,\" Bren said. The motorized scooter ordinance was tabled by council and will be revisited after the safety course provision has been added, as well as changes that do not limit the streets on which the scooters can be operated"}
{"Id":"1101162688970","Title":"Alderwood School Board Briefs","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"10/4/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"1-Column Board appoints12 to health, sex education committee The Alderwood School Board created a 12-member committee to review the district's health and sex education curriculum. The members include one administrator, two students, five parents and four staff members. Also included on the list of those planning to participate in the process are four ex officio members. Superintendent Dr. Aaron Bones said he interviewed all of the applicants and narrowed it down to the 12 he was recommending to the board. He said the people on the committee are a very diverse, but a very balanced group. He added that parents who were appointed to the board all have children who are attending school and are all actively involved in their children's education. The people who make up the committee include Harrison Middle School Principal Janie Hernandez, Alderwood High School students Julian Stroh and Mira Mendoza, parents Tim Bardell, Suzie Zamarron, Marilyn Van Oostrum, Mike Shuttleworth and Sandra Linde; staff members Patty Griffith from Harrison Middle School, Stacey Alseth from Alderwood High School, Dalia Gonzalez from Chief Kamiakin Elementary School and Tina Peabody from Alderwood High School. The ex officio members include School Board member Joanne Kilian, Jan McDonald with Lower Valley Pregnancy Center, Berenise Martinez with Planned Parenthood and Sister Mary Rita Rohde with Nuestra Casa"}
{"Id":"1101162690611","Title":"Man arrested for using fake ID","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"10/4/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Sumner resident Robert E. Ford, 38, was arrested Saturday evening after he reportedly attempted to cash a fake Washington State unemployment check at Alderwood's Valley View Market, 107 W. Lincoln Ave. A store clerk thought the check was fraudulent and called the police, according to Alderwood Police Officer Oliver Hernandez. Officers arrived within minutes and found Ford running from the market through the Apex winery property. He was chased down on foot by two police officers. Police said the check at first looked to be good, however upon closer examination officers determined the check to be a fake. Ford's identification was also fake, said Hernandez. Ford was booked into the Alderwood jail on charges of forgery, criminal impersonation and resisting arrest. He is expected to be arraigned in Yakima County Superior Court this week. Hernandez said store owners should be on the lookout for more fake checks. It is believed that Ford had an accomplice driving a blue 1990s model Windstar van. The van left when officers arrived on scene to apprehend Ford"}
{"Id":"1101162690861","Title":"Othello Huskies ruin G'view Homecoming","Author":"Bob Story","Time":"10/4/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"GRANDVIEW - Ouch! The Othello Huskies pinned a whopping defeat on the Greyhound football team during Grandview Homecoming this past Friday. The Huskies (2-1, 3-2) rolled into Grandview and escaped town with a 49-14 victory. \"Othello is very young this year,\" said Grandview's first year coach, Dustin Lamb. \"What's surprising is how tough they are.\" The Huskies are also very balanced on offense. Othello rushed for 217 yards against the 'Hounds and picked up another 205 yards through the air. The end result was a pounding of the 'Hounds. One of the few bright spots Lamb could garner from Friday's Central Washington Athletic Conference game was the play of senior Silas Hansen. The talented running back rushed for a team high 135 yards on 22 carries. Hansen also scored both of Grandview's touchdowns. Part of the reason for Hansen's success on the ground was the realignment of Grandview's offensive line. J.R. Camacho and Blake Carpenter were moved to the left side of the line, and the duo opened some gaping holes for Hansen to rush through. \"Camacho and Carpenter's play kind of kick-started us,\" said Lamb. Grandview's undoing was turnovers. On the Greyhounds' first four possessions of the game, they coughed up the ball four times. \"You can't commit those kinds of mistakes against a team as good as Othello,\" said Lamb, \"Not if you expect to win.\" Offensively for Grandview, Brandon Artz threw for 112 yards on 13-of-27 passing numbers. Hansen had five receptions for 25 yards, James Vela hauled in four of the passes for 47 yards and Kevin Concienne tallied 29 yards on three catches. On the defensive side of the ball for Grandview, Camacho was in on 11 tackles, five of them solo stops. Concienne, Artz and Vela each had three solo tackles, with Concienne and Chris Mejia each recording five defensive assists. The Greyhounds (1-2, 1-4) are scheduled to travel to Naches (1-1, 4-1) this coming Friday night"}
{"Id":"1101162691111","Title":"Briefs","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"10/1/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"1-Column Preliminary plat approved for Granger's Wine Country Estates GRANGER - Tuesday morning, Yakima County commissioner approved a preliminary plat, which will add four lots to Wine Country Estates, a small subdivision located just outside of Granger. The four-lot long plat will double the size of the subdivision, which was started with a four-lot short plat three years ago. The preliminary plat divides a 20.5 acre plot of land into four lots. Although the preliminary plat was approved, it was approved with conditions that must be met before a final plat will be approved. The conditions state that there must be individual wells to serve each lot, that the existing approach onto Yakima Valley Highway must be upgraded to commercial road approach standards and a storm water management plan will have to be submitted to Yakima County. Other conditions include such things as road width and the size of easements"}
{"Id":"1101162691376","Title":"Entertainment Briefs","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"10/1/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"1-Column Seniors invitedto Halloween party GRANDVIEW - Senior citizens are being invited to get into the spirit of Halloween, at a costume party scheduled for Friday, Oct. 29. Sponsored by the Grandview Parks and Recreation Department, the Halloween party will get underway at 10:30 a.m. that day at the Carl L. Stevens Senior Center in Grandview (410 W. 2nd). On the party agenda are lots of games, prizes and contests. Park and rec officials are advising those planning on attending to begin thinking now about putting together a costume for the party. All Lower Valley senior citizens are welcome to attend. Following the party, a noon meal will be served. Those planning on attending the luncheon are asked to call at least 24 hours in advance to make a reservation (882-9230). Holiday bazaar planned for Nov. 6 GRANDVIEW - Have an arts and crafts talent you'd like to share with others? Then plan on selling your handiwork at this year's holiday bazaar, sponsored by the Grandview Senior Center. Tables are presently available on a first-come, first-serve basis. The cost to rent a table at the bazaar to showcase your wares is 10 for a large table, 5 for a smaller card table. Table reservations can be made by calling the Grandview Parks and Recreation Department at 882-9219. Proceeds from the table rentals will be used to benefit senior citizen programs in Grandview. In past years, the Grandview bazaar has featured such items as handcrafts, knitted items and baked goods. This year's bazaar, slated for Saturday, Nov. 6, from 9 a.m. to 2 p.m., will again be held in the Carl L. Stevens Senior Center in Grandview, located at 401 W. 2nd St. Concours de Maryhill to feature car show, race, wine tasting, BBQ GOLDENDALE - If you're a fan of classic and custom automobiles, you won't want to miss out on the sixth annual \"Concours de Maryhill.\" Scheduled for Saturday and Sunday, Oct. 9-10, the yearly event is again expected to attract hundreds of people. Visitors to Maryhill Museum, located near Goldendale, will have an array of mint condition vintage, classic and custom cars to admire on Saturday. Refreshment vendors will also be on-site that day, including Cafe Maryhill with a wide selection of menu items and Oregon Trail Candy, which will be offering fruit pies. Admission to the car show and outdoor sculpture garden, surprisingly, is free. \"The legendary Sam Hill, founder of Maryhill Museum, was a car and road enthusiast,\" said Colleen Schafroth, executive director of the museum. \"He would love this event,\" she added. At noon on Saturday, approximately 40 vintage race cars will parade down Scenic Route 14 into the car show at the museum. The 1930 through 1960s vehicles will compete in a hill climb race the following day, on the museum's Historic Loops Road, from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. \"This is an open car show, so anyone with a special car may enter,\" said Travis Gray of the Goldendale Motorsports Association, the co-sponsor of the event. Gray said collectors interested in showing their vehicle are encouraged to call (509) 773-3677 to make arrangements. He said the lawns at the museum are extensive, so there's space available for numerous automobiles. Awards will be presented at 3:30 p.m. Saturday, following by a BBQ dinner on the museum's picnic grounds. Following that, a wine tasting session is scheduled at nearby Maryhill Winery. Promotional support for the car show and hill climb race is being provided by Meadow Outdoor Advertising of The Dalles, Ore. Sunday, spectators can view the hill climb race from an overlook on U.S. 97, just three miles north of Scenic Route 14. The race is organized by the Society of Vintage Racing Enthusiasts, and only their approved cars and drivers can compete. Maryhill Museum, a castle-like mansion overlooking the Columbia River Gorge, is located just west of U.S. 97 on Washington's Scenice Route 14. Impact comingto Yakima, Richland Yakima Valley residents are being urged to celebrate the onset of winter and the thrill of action sports at \"Impact,\" the 55th annual Warren Miller movie that is presently touring the country. The film showcases winter sports' top athletes and local heroes on the big screen as producers travel to fabled and exotic locations around the globe in search of the perfect ride, deepest powder and sickest lines. Promoters say each screening of the movie is a high energy event booked as a limited engagement. The movie will be shown at Yakima's Capitol Theatre on Friday, Oct. 29, at 8 p.m. Saturday, Oct. 30, the film will be shown at Richland High School at 8 p.m. Along with adrenaline-filled action and magnificent scenery, \"Impact\" delivers a high energy soundtrack on a state-of-the-art digital sound system. Tickets for the Yakima event are now on sale at Sporthaus, the Capitol Theatre box office and at TicketsWest (1-800-325-SEAT). Large groups wanting to sit together should call Warren Miller Entertainment directly (1-800-523-7117). All who attend either the Yakima or Richland showing will receive free lift tickets to the White Pass ski area, as well as tickets to four ski resorts in British Columbia. Silver Spur Rodeo dates to be switched YAKIMA - Organizers of the 2005 Silver Spur Rodeo three days of rodeo action and a bull-o-rama have applied to hold the event in March as opposed to January. Scheduled dates are March 24-26, at the Yakima SunDome. In years past, the three-day event had been staged in January. \"We want to move the dates to try to avoid any potential weather problems,\" said the chairman of the event, Ken Messer. \"Dates in March would make it safer for travel for out-of-town contestants and rodeo fans.\" Messer explained that although the rodeo is held indoors, in some years past bad weather has impacted attendance because of ice and snow on the highways. He added that the rodeo committee is looking at the possibility of creating a three-day entertainment event on the Central Washington State Fairgrounds that is built around the rodeo. \"We think these new dates in March will give us a better chance to grow the rodeo,\" Messer said. Seattle Symphony in concert Oct. 13 ELLENSBURG - Central Washington University will present the Seattle Symphony on Wednesday, Oct. 13, at 7:30 p.m., in the music education building on the Ellensburg campus. It is one of the \"Inaugural Season Showcase Performances\" that will be held through the 2004-05 academic year in the university's new 29 million facility. The symphony's CWU performance is sponsored by Cave B Estate Winery, Puget Sound Energy, Lydig Construction, Coca Cola and the associated students of Central Washington University. Tickets are 25 and are available at the Samuelson Union Building (SUB) ticket counter, weekdays from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m., or by calling (509) 963-3513, weekdays from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. Remaining tickets will be available at the door"}
{"Id":"1101162706939","Title":"Tacitly Yours","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"10/1/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Sometimes it's hard for me to believe that it's only been five months since we got our dog. I already can't hardly remember what life was like without her. OK, so I remember life was a little cleaner, shoes were safer and our yard was free of holes. But overall, I really can't remember ever not having another living, breathing, thinking creature in my life - except for my husband, of course. When we first got Maggie I remember we really weren't sure what we had gotten ourselves into. We rescued her from someone who had found a mother dog and her litter dumped off at the side of the road, so when we finally got her to our house she was tick ridden and a little sad looking. Looking at her now, you would never guess that she was ever a feeble little animal. She runs around like a maniac, spends her days chasing after squirrels and birds and even manages to run a cat up a tree every now and then. Even though it's only been five months, I like to think that in that amount of time our dog has managed to calm down at least a little bit. I know my family will not likely agree with that statement. But within weeks of bringing the puppy home she was running around like crazy, jumping on everyone and never seemed to sit still. Now, she's at least getting to the point where she will sit if you tell her to. Well, she'll sit if you have a treat in your hand and she thinks there's even a remote chance you will give it to her. But I take what I can get where that dog is concerned. Despite all of her mischievous qualities there is something utterly adorable about our little puppy, who is already standing over two-feet tall. I think it has something to do with her big floppy years and her constantly wagging tail. All I know is that for someone who has never had someone or something else completely rely on her for things like food and shelter, having a dog has been a big responsiblity. A responsibility that I can't imagine ever being without. . Ellie Olmsen can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or e-mail her at eOlmsen@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101162707205","Title":"Lady 'Hounds race past Othello","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"10/1/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"OTHELLO - The Grandview Lady Greyhounds out ran the Huskies Thursday night, racing past the Othello team to claim victory in a three-game match. The Grandview team defeated Othello by scores of 25-15, 25-8 and 25-12. \"It was a pretty good team effort,\" said Grandview Coach John LaFever. \"We did a good job of doing the things we had to do.\" LaFever added that the game came at a tough time for the Lady 'Hounds, noting that it's Homecoming week and many students are staying up late. He added that the long bus ride to Othello was also tough on the team. \"Riding to Othello, then having to play - that's kind of tough,\" he said. Overall, LaFever said he was happy with his team's performance against Othello. \"They did a good job and played really well,\" LaFever said. Helping add a bit of spunk to Grandview's game was senior Mari Cornejo. LaFever explained that Cornejo has been working on a new serving style, which she tried out against Othello. \"She had a long string of serves that really dominated the game,\" LaFever said. He said that the serve Cornejo is using is something she picked up while playing against some larger 4A schools. Cornejo had a good night overall with 6 aces, 16 service points, 3 kills and 4 assists. Also helping out the Lady 'Hounds were Chante Bottineau with 8 digs and 18 assists, Kealey Johnston with 10 service points, 3 kills and 11 digs, Danelle Cowan with 9 kills and 2 blocks, Angie Cabrera with 2 kills and 7 digs, Valentina Solis with 10 kills and 3 service aces, Jessica Gonzalez with 8 service points, and Tonhya Wysong with 1 kill and 14 digs. LaFever said the game with Othello marks one of the last few matches the team will be forced to play on the road. \"They are going to come to our place to play us now,\" LaFever said. Before the Lady 'Hounds (5-0, 6-1)return to their home court they will be taking part in the Wenatchee tournament Saturday afternoon"}
{"Id":"1101162707486","Title":"Forum","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"9/29/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"1-Column Prep students getting pathetic The high school kids who read this don't get offended just yet. I'm addressing this letter to the useless punks who like vandalizing other people's property. I'm talking about losers who think they're \"bad\" the ones who write insults about someone in the restroom stall, scratch somebody's car or do anything to something that's not theirs. Maybe it's just me, but I think that doing one, or all of these things, makes you a punk. Come on, the poor person doesn't even know who's doing it so they can defend themselves. I mean, think about it. I'm saying all this because someone did this to me. And if the idiot who scratched my car is reading this (although I doubt it because I suppose you'd have no interest in your town's news and might not even be able to read for that matter), I'd like to say \"thank you.\" I'll tell you why. I received my car used, so it came with its share of scratches. I thought about having them buffed out but was told it would cost me more than a hundred dollars, so I decided to wait. Now, when someone added scratches to my car's collection, it gave me a reason to go to a dealership where a nice service guy told me he'd buff my car for only fifty dollars. You actually saved me money. Only a truly stupid person can pull off doing something good while intending it to be bad. Next time you feel like doing something like that again, grow a brain and some guts. Why don't you show me who you are instead of hiding. /s/ Jessica Zamorano, Alderwood High School senior Fund-raisera big success We would like to thank everyone who donated baked goods, money and time to the bake sale fund-raiser for Katie Gonzalez. The response was phenomenal and the results were overwhelming. More than 1,400 was raised from the bake sale and an additional 860 was donated into the account at Yakima Federal. The account at Yakima Federal will remain open for such purposes until after the first of the year. It was heartwarming to see how people in a community like this cared and wanted to help. A bank check was sent to Katie and she was without words as she felt the love and concern from the community that raised her. Again, thanks to all for your support to make this such a success. /s/ Janet Wells & Michelle Naranjo, Alderwood Guardrail handprints The sealer has been put on the Fifth Street guardrail handprints. This sealer will provide protection from the elements on something that has involved citizens from every corner of our community. It speaks of diversity, and what a beautiful sight to see all the different hands working together to make Alderwood even more beautiful. I want to thank Standard Paint's Dave and Rich for donating the sealer; Don Stiles, Mitch Ziegler, Phil, Tony and Chris for their help putting the sealer on; and I'm inviting all the citizens to take a closer look at the area on Fifth Street now and in the future, as well. We will be adding more spring bulbs and plants, as well. I would encourage everyone to look around at our parks and see if your neighbors, clubs, organizations, churches, youth groups, etc. might adopt a park sign and make it a beautiful sight next year. Bulbs and extra plants from your own yards would add to Alderwood's image to all of our citizens, as well as to our visitors. I want to thank all the volunteers who have worked on the Fifth Street guardrail project and those who will join in each and every addition. The citizens of Alderwood working together can make anything happen. I want to give a special thank you to the Alderwood Daily News for always giving its best coverage for community projects. All of you are awesome in my opinion. /s/ Carol Stone, Alderwood Ever wonder... These are things I wonder about... 1) how many car accidents are caused by drivers talking on their cell phones? 2) why are gang members allowed when they do so many evil things? 3) why don't school buses have seatbelts? 4) why are there so many dropouts from high school today? 5) why are there so many bad drivers? 6) why doesn't everyone who rides a bicycle wear a helmet? 7) why are some little ones not supervised properly? 8) why isn't there a law when a drunken driver kills someone because of his stupidity he or she is taken to the morgue to view the person he killed, and then go to the funeral? 9) why aren't all unmarried mothers taken to the hospital before their time to view someone in labor? I could ask a lot of questions about jails and prisons, but we all know they must be nice or no one would want to go back to that environment. Think about it! /s/ Bernice Seward, Alderwood"}
{"Id":"1101162707799","Title":"REC to hold festive sunset meeting for 10 years of service","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"9/29/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"With little more than three months left of existence, the Lower Alderwood Valley Rural Enterprise Community (REC) is planning on going out in style. Tuesday night, members of the REC board met to hear reports about how some of the funds they recently distributed are being spent, and how they are going to commemorate the organization's 10 years of work. Dec. 31, the local REC, like all rural enterprise communities across the country, will dissolve after having spent 10 years distributing grant funds for different projects that helped benefit the local community. Joan Souders, REC board chair, said after the group's last meeting she was approached by Alderwood Community Hospital officials wanting to host a sunset meeting for the board. Souders reported that the hospital said it would host the event, and include cookies, coffee and juice. The sunset meeting will serve as a farewell to REC and to recognize all of the people who have helped the board over the past decade. Souders said she is expecting about 50 people to attend the meeting, which will take place Nov. 16. Souders then asked board members if they would be willing to head out into the communities of the Lower Valley to photograph some of the projects REC has been a part of. She said the pictures will then be included in a PowerPoint presentation to be made during the sunset meeting. A few of the projects that will be discussed during the sunset meeting include several that were discussed Tuesday night. Sandra Linde with Alderwood Community Hospital talked about how the 5,000 that was recently granted to her project is already being utilized. Linde said orders have been made for hands-on medical models, including skeletons for Alderwood High School, Alderwood Christian High School, Grandview High School, Grandview Middle School and Harrison Middle School. Linde said things are also coming together for the certified nursing training that is being made possible thanks to REC funds. She said the curriculum has been reviewed and a teacher has been found. \"So we're just moving ahead,\" Linde said. Linde also reported on how some of the initial funds granted to the hospital from REC have been put to use. She said because of the funds the hospital was able to host an education day for seniors interested in doing their senior project on a job in the medical field. She said after the one-day seminar, 22 students were selected to take part in the hospital's senior project program. The students will be matched with a mentor and will have opportunities to volunteer their time at the hospital for the rest of their senior year. Linde explained that Alderwood seniors are required to spend 15 hours volunteering. She said at the hospital half of those hours will be spent volunteering in a specific area of the hospital that a student is interested in, while the other half will be spent volunteering at different hospital events, like the recent Women's Health Night. \"This would never have happened if it hadn't been for you,\" Linde told the board. Chris Gonzalez with Horizon of Alderwood Inc. said the funds received by the local organization are being used to offer more computer classes to people who need them. He explained that the funds are being used to offer basic computer classes, as well as more advanced classes that teach people how to use different programs like Excel and PowerPoint. Gonzalez said the more advanced classes not only help local business owners learn how to use the computer to better the way they do business, they also help make people more employable. According to Gonzalez, since having received initial funding from REC, Horizon had served 75 students in its computer classes, 35 students through its Spanish as a Second Language computer program, and has given 55 students working on their GED access to computers. In total, 295 people have had access to Horizon's technology center. Cristina Klatovsky with the Washington Migrant Council talked to the board about how the Alderwood Community Center has been able to utilize the additional funding it recently received. She said so far 3,200 of the 5,000 it received has been spent on a variety of new catering equipment for the facility. She said the center has already been able to cater several events thanks to the new equipment, noting it helps give the center a more professional look when it is being used for meetings. \"Now we look more professional, and we need to look professional,\" Klatovsky said. The REC board also took a look at their finances. According to the fiscal report, the board has obligated the remainder of its funds with 3,717 left to cover closing costs for the organization. . Ellie Olmsen can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or e-mail her at eOlmsen@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101162708033","Title":"Mustangs make it two in a row over Alderwood frosh team","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"9/29/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"The Prosser High School freshman football team is plenty tough. Just ask the Alderwood frosh squad. This past Monday, Prosser wore down the Alderwood freshmen enroute to scoring a 28-7 victory. It was the second such win for the Mustangs against Alderwood in the last two weeks. Alderwood's lone score came in the fourth quarter on a 25-yard TD pass from Adrian Cantu to Nathan Cornelius. \"We were dragging a bit at the end of the game,\" said Alderwood Coach Glenn Braman. \"We weren't as conditioned as Prosser.\" Despite sustaining the defeat, which squared the Alderwood freshman team's record at 2-2 on the season, Braman said he is optimistic his club can bounce back against West Valley's freshmen next week. \"The kids realized they needed to be in better condition, and even asked to run more this week in practice so they're in the kind of shape they need to be in,\" Braman said. Against Prosser, the Grizzly players had their opportunities to score early on, but were unable to punch the ball into the end zone. \"We had lots of long drives in the game,\" Braman said. \"But we couldn't sustain the drives once we got inside Prosser's 10-yard line. \"In fact, we had three drives that ended on Prosser's 1-yard line,\" he added. \"Our kids have to learn that the motto is to win every snap. We need 11 guys going hard on every play. We're getting close to that, but we're not quite there yet,\" Braman said. Prosser scored two of its touchdowns on passing plays, the other two scores coming on rushing attempts"}
{"Id":"1101162708267","Title":"Grizzly grid game against West Valley at home Friday","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"9/29/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Alderwood Athletic Director Bill Daley doesn't want Grizzly football fans trekking to West Valley this Friday, to find an empty field. Daley said some of the schedules that were initially distributed at the beginning of the season listed this coming Friday night's football game being played on the Rams' home field. \"That isn't the case,\" said Daley. He reiterated that the game will actually be played on the Alderwood field. Game time is slated for 7:30 p.m. The Grizzlies will be looking to knock off West Valley. A victory would square Alderwood's record at 1-1 in the conference standings"}
{"Id":"1101162708502","Title":"AHS grads tops in national automotive technology testing","Author":"Jamie Smart","Time":"9/28/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"2003 Alderwood High School graduates Jacob Hazzard and Ryan Johnson have earned scholarships while attending Universal Technical Institute to study automotive technology. The young men scored in the top 10 percent on a national placement test to attend their choice of the nationwide network of technical schools, said Brett Schutte, a UTI educational representative. \"They are representative of the quality students we've come to expect from Alderwood,\" Schutte said. Schutte was in Alderwood last week not only to make the announcement about the two young men's good fortune, but to also honor long-time auto shop instructor Nick Paulakis. Paulakis, who has taught auto mechanics at AHS for the past 22 years, received a pin set, in the form of a gear shift, as well as a plaque from UTI. \"Nick continues to turn out the kind of students who are making the choice for careers in the automotive industry, from technicians to detailing an auto design,\" Schutte said. Schutte visited Alderwood High School last week to make the announcement about the graduates' good fortune while giving a recruiting speech to Paulakis' current group of auto shop students. \"Hazzard and Johnson are both attending technology training programs at the Arizona campus,\" Schutte said. When they complete their training, which may take as long as 12 to 20 months, they will be able to go to work pulling down salaries of up to 24 a hour, he told the students. Technicians with factory training can command salaries even higher, he added \"As long as there is a need to fix cars, truck, boats and motorcycles, there will be a need for highly trained technicians,\" he said. Schutte encouraged Paulakis' students to work on maintaining good grades, not just in auto shop, but in all their classes, to maintain a good attendance record and to keep their driving record spotless. \"Employers look at all of those areas in addition to your training when it comes to hiring the best person for their business,\" he said. \"As an employee in a highly competitive field you'll need every edge you can get to get the job,\" he told the students. Hazzard and Johnson are among more than 18 AHS students in recent years who have gone to UTI and into careers in the automotive industry, Schutte said. \"They are among the thousands of young people who are learning that the days of the shade tree mechanic are a thing of the past, Schutte told the current crop of gear heads. \"You can't get the same on the job training you could get in your father's day,\" he said. The training available in technical schools is a fast way to become employable, he added, encouraging the students to carefully consider their career plans. \"Make sure you can get a job in the area you choose,\" he said. There is a lot of money to be made in the automotive technology, he said. \"And a long as people drive cars, there will be a need for highly skilled technicians,\" he said"}
{"Id":"1101162708736","Title":"Alderwood High School drop-out rates improving","Author":"Jamie Smart","Time":"9/27/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"With all of the efforts being made to keep kids in schools, the Alderwood School District is seeing a decline in the number of students who leave school. This past year of the 1,347 students who started the 2003-04 school year at the high school, 8.6 percent dropped out. \"But that is not to say those students didn't end up deciding to continue their education further down the line,\" said Gary Vegar, the Alderwood School District's director of curriculum and learning. He said the state definition of a dropout refers to those students who leave school failing to graduate with their peers. \"Many of the students will continue their education in some other fashion,\" he said. For example, some students will return to school at PRIDE High School, the district's alternative school, and others will elect to earn their GED, he explained. \"I think schools are doing a better job of keeping kids in school by offering more support programs, which meet the needs of the non-traditional students. \"For those who don't work well in the regular classroom, we are offering a variety of alternative education and mentoring programs to help them to succeed,\" Vegar said. The Alderwood figures reflect the declining state public high school dropout rate, according to figures issued from the state Office of the Superintendent of Public Instruction. The estimated high school drop-out rate for Washington public schools students declined 6.7 percent during the 2002-03 school year, down a full percentage point from 2001-02. However, the reduction in the number of dropouts leaving school without a diploma doesn't show a higher number of in graduation rates. Vegar said that is understandable. Vegar said the state judges the drop-out rate on the total number of students who drop out of school between the ninth and 12 grades, who don't end up graduating on time within the four-year time line. For some kids, earning that coveted high school diploma in four years is just taking longer, he said. A number of factors play into the disparity. \"For example, some teens drop out to work or have babies, only to return to school several months or a year later to resume their education. One area where the percentage rates are higher for dropout rates is at the state's alternative high schools.\" For example, PRIDE High School in Alderwood shows 45.3 percent dropout rates, based on its 2003-04 school enrollment of 158 students. But here again the annual dropout rate doesn't show the number of students who may have elected to return to school to complete their education, Vegar said. In nearby Mabton School District, the dropout rate was listed at zero for the past year, while Grandview reportedly had 50 students drop out of school, using the state formula. According to the OSPI figures, an estimated 65.7 percent of the state's students graduated on time in 2003, while another 10 percent remained enrolled to continue working toward their diploma. The estimated cumulative dropout rate for the state class of 2003 was 24.3 percent. However, about half of those students termed as dropouts were students who could not be tracked after leaving school and had not yet earned a diploma. Vegar believes the actual number of students graduating is better than the state's figures. \"We just need a better way to track those students who return to earn their diplomas through other programs,\" he said"}
{"Id":"1101162709002","Title":"UFW co-founder encourages Alderwood Latino voters to support Kerry for president","Author":"Mel Sacher","Time":"9/27/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"For Marisela Guzman of Toppenish, attending last Friday's public meeting in Alderwood that was geared towards Latino voters was more of a curiosity. The 18-year-old will be voting for the first time this November and she wants to make an informed decision, she said. Flora Lucatero, 25, of Yakima traveled to Alderwood just to hear Dolores Huerta speak. \"She's one of my heroes,\" said Lucatero. \"I agree 100 percent with what she says.\" Issues that concern both Guzman and Lucatero are education, health care and jobs. Lucatero said the job issue is especially important to her since her father-in-law was laid off from the Goldendale aluminum plant after 25 years of service. \"That was partially because of Bush,\" said Lucatero. The young women were among about 100 attending a dinner at Navarro's Community Center, where National Chair of Women for Kerry and United Farm Worker co-founder Dolorez Huerta spoke. Huerta, who co-founded the UFW Union with Cesar Chavez, spoke in support of presidential candidate John Kerry. Gabriel Portugal of the Washington Steering Committee for Latinos opened the evening's events by telling attendees there is power in the vote. He compared voting to going to the store. \"The vote is like money,\" he said. \"When you go to the store and buy tortillas, do you buy them because everybody else is or because you want and you need them?\" He said voting is the same way, explaining that you go to the poll to place your vote not for, who your friends vote for but for who you want and need. \"When we have Hispanic issues, we need to have Hispanic representation who knows what our needs are,\" said Portugal, adding that they shouldn't just vote Democrat. \"You want to see who is available, who you can purchase with your vote,\" he added. State Rep. Phyllis Kenney introduced Huerta, but first said that Latinos of Washington state are important to this year's election. \"Latinos in Washington State know they can make a difference,\" said Kenney. The Latinos for Kerry Committee was formed to help bring unified support to the presidential candidate, said Kenney, who added that it also brings the Latino community awareness of the differences between the two candidates and which ones are speaking for the Hispanic community. Kenney introduced Huerta, an icon to farm workers across the United States, to the crowd. Huerta is a civil rights leader, a parent, a grandparent and great-grandparent, said Kenney. \"She has played a major role in all our communities,\" said Kenney. Arrested 22 times, Huerta was involved in the Delano Grape Strikes and helped pass the first laws protecting California farm worker rights. She was also instrumental in lobbing against federal guest worker programs and spearheaded legislation granting amnesty for farm workers who had lived, worked and paid taxes in the United States for many years, but were not able to enjoy the privileges of citizenship. Kenney also noted that Huerta was one of three named the 1998 Ms. Magazine's \"Women of the Year.\" She was also listed as one of the Ladies Home Journal's \"100 Most Important Women of the 20th Century,\" and has been inducted into the National Women's Hall of Fame and has received the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) Roger Baldwin Medal of Liberty award. With the crowd shouting \"Viva Dolores,\" Huerta took the stage. She introduced a group of Snokist strikers who were attending the Friday night event. Huerta encouraged those attending the meeting to support the strikers in their efforts. \"Cesar Chavez always said we need to continue the fight and never give up,\" said Huerta. She said this year's election is important to the whole country. In the war against terrorism, Huerta said that Bush's reasons for going to war were not valid. \"The message isn't clear,\" she said. \"People are confused.\" In recent months Huerta said Bush ads have been played on Spanish television. \"Oh, yeah, Bush loves Hispanics now,\" said Huerta. \"Bush's plan for immigration is not a good plan,\" she said. \"The proposals Bush is making are not good for Latinos.\" Huerta also criticized California Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger for his refusal to increase minimum wage. Not only in California, but nation-wide the number of people who are living in poverty has increased, said Huerta, adding that more than half of them are Latino. \"Bush does not care about poor people,\" said Huerta. She added that his immigration proposals aren't good enough. \"Anybody who comes and works and pays their taxes has the right to pursue their citizenship,\" said Huerta. She said that Bush is making a lot of promises and has not created a single job, although many have lost their jobs. \"The secretary of labor is taking jobs to other countries. That's not good,\" said Huerta. \"Jobs need to be here for Americans.\" Another issue Huerta said is important is the financial aid issue. \"Financial aid is slowly going away,\" said Huerta. \"Financial aid is not available for our students.\" She said decisions made in the United State affect the world. Huerta said the big corporations receive big tax breaks. \"When everyone got taxes back that's nothing compared to what the corporations are getting back,\" said Huerta. Health care is also an issue that concerns Huerta. \"How is it we are one of the most powerful countries in the world and we don't have health care for all the citizens?\" questioned Huerta. She said that Cuba is a small, poor country with a U.S. embargo and yet people have access to medical care. \"How is that possible?,\" she added. Quoting Kerry, Huerta said, \"All Americans should have the same health insurance that our congressmen and women have.\" Huerta said that Republicans tell people that Democrats want big government while Republicans want small government. \"The only reason they want small government is because they want corporations to run the government,\" said Huerta. \"Corporations want to privatize everything and it's going to affect everyone.\" Huerta said that Republicans will tell farm workers that Democrats have no family values since most of them support gay marriage. \"I am a Catholic woman and I have really high morals and I have 11 children, but that doesn't mean everyone should have 11 children to have family values,\" she said. \"If two men get married how does it affect our pocketbooks,\" said Huerta. \"It doesn't affect us, period. What affects us as a family is the pocketbook, which is affected by no jobs.\" \"Get out and vote,\" Huerta encouraged those at the rally. \"We have a lot of power and we can do it"}
{"Id":"1101162709236","Title":"State-of-the art music hall opens Oct. 3 in Ellensburg","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"9/24/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"ELLENSBURG - Launching a new era of music education and music performance, Central Washington University in Ellensburg will open the doors to its new, state-of-the-art music education building on Sunday, Oct. 3. \"This magnificent structure has been in the planning stages for many years,\" says CWU President Jerilyn S. McIntyre. \"Now, it is a dream come true for all of us and a fitting home for our outstanding music program.\" The 29-million facility measures approximately 70,000 square feet and features a 600-seat concert hall, 150-seat recital hall, 30 practice rooms, four rehearsal rooms and several classrooms and faculty studios. Among its most impressive features are a main entry with high ceilings and tall windows for natural light, and a main performance hall with VIP boxes. In addition, walls and ceilings of rehearsal rooms are tailored to particular music groups. For instance, the choir room is shaped and outfitted differently than the orchestra room. \"This building means a tremendous step for the department of music and the community,\" Dr. Chris Aspaas, CWU director of choral activity, explains. \"Guest artists will now be lured to the region in part due to the quality of performing spaces. For an institution of higher learning, this kind of facility is almost unheard of.\" Design of the two-phase facility began in 1999. Studio Meng Strazzara served as the project architect-engineer. With Lydig Construction filling the role of project contractor, construction of Phase 1, including the concert and recital halls, started in October 2002. Phase 2, involving the classrooms, practice facilities and faculty studios, began the following year. \"We thank our legislative delegation and other friends of Central in the state Senate and House, who worked long and hard to provide the funding we needed to achieve our goal for all the people of the state,\" McIntyre added. Hertz Hall, constructed in 1963 for a music department of 150 students, has been the most recent home for the music department, which now comprises 260 music majors. It's projected to grow to 326 majors by 2010. \"On a scale of one to 10, Hertz Hall was about a four and the new music building is a nine,\" Larry Gookin, CWU director of bands, claims. \"That's how big a difference the new building will make in music education and performance.\" The first performance in the new building, featuring students and faculty, will take place Sunday, Oct. 3, at 3 p.m. On Wednesday, Oct. 13, the Seattle Symphony will also perform there as part of a year-long series of \"Inaugural Season Showcase Performances"}
{"Id":"1101162768659","Title":"School board dedicates new Alderwood parent center","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"9/24/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"The community of Alderwood has a new place to go when it comes to resources to help better the achievement of both children and parents in the local school district. Thursday night, the Alderwood School Board, as well as representatives from the Northwest Community Action Center and Education Service District 105 gathered together to celebrate the dedication of the new parent center at 810 E. Custer Ave. in Alderwood. Jesse Garza, executive director of the Northwest Community Action Center, said his organization has been working with the Alderwood School District on its parent center for the past five years. He noted that one of the things that helped make the center possible was a grant that was received through the Department of Education. Alderwood Executive Director of School and Community Resources Ruben Carrera said the center will offer parents a place to come and learn about different resources available through both the school district and the community. Carrera also noted that the parent center includes a technology center. The computer lab serves as a place where parents can come in and take computer classes or simply take advantage of the technology. \"You never stop learning, no matter what the age,\" Carrera said. Superintendent Dr. Aaron Bones took time Thursday night to congratulate everyone who was involved with making the center possible. He added that although the center will serve as a central hub for parent activities and resources, it does not diminish the parent involvement efforts taking place at the different schools in the district. Following the dedication, school board members and several administrators walked across the parking lot to the Denny Blaine building for the school board retreat. During the retreat the board members talked about a variety of topics, including further discussing parent involvement, looking at the salary schedule for all district employees and touching on school safety. Susan Martin, the parent involvement coordinator for Educational Service District 105, said she has been working with the local school district on its parent involvement component since last May. \"What I truly believe is that all families want what is best for their children,\" Martin told board members. Martin then commended the board on taking a proactive stance on parent involvement, noting that they are ahead of many districts when it comes to taking steps to actively include parents in their children's education. \"Family and school together, can help all students be successful,\" Martin said. Carrera added that although the opening of the parent center is a big step, the process of getting parents involved in school is ongoing. \"You've laid a great path and it's going to be an exciting journey,\" Martin said. During the board retreat, Human Resources Director Debbie Holwegner and Payroll Officer Pauline Schut took time to walk the board through the 2004-05 salary schedules and agreements for the different positions in the district. As Holwegner and Schut showed some of the different salary schedules to the board members, Bones made some comments about some of the changes that have taken place in regards to the different salaries scheduled for the 2004-05 school year. He pointed to the salary schedule for classified administrators, which include positions like the transportation supervisor, noting that this is the first time there has been a salary schedule for these positions. He explained that in the past the different positions have each had their own salary range. This year all of those positions have been brought together, with all of the salaries also having been brought closer together and put in the same salary schedule. Bones said another change to the salary schedule involves principals in the district. Bones said principals have been year-around employees. He said this is because many principals were often found in their buildings in July, dealing with everything from new hires to getting things organized for the next school year. John Hughes, safe and effective schools director, took time to talk to the board about the upcoming Washington State Health Youth Survey, which is administered every two years to sixth, eighth, tenth and twelfth graders. Hughes said this year will mark the third time the test has been administered in the school district. Hughes said the test will be administered sometime between Oct. 11 and 15. He added that the surveys are anonymous and voluntary, and deal with everything from bicycle safety to drugs and alcohol. Hughes said the district has also been working on putting together a curriculum for younger students that deals with irrigation canal safety. He said the district received a 5,000 grant from Pacific Power to work on the curriculum, which is being created with help from both kindergarten teachers and students. He told board members he is currently searching for an illustrator to draw the coloring books that will make up the curriculum. Bones then talked about different subjects the school board would like to bring up when they schedule a joint meeting between the board and city council. Bones said he would like to talk about different partnerships between the two entities and working to ensure that services are not being duplicated. He said the different subjects he would like to see discussed include looking at aligning all of the early learning programs in the community on the same page, working to get children ready to enter kindergarten. He said he would also like to see the subject of technology discussed, because technology is something that affects everyone in the community. As for the subject of adequate yearly progress, Executive Director of Instruction and Learning Gary Vegar said many of the schools in Alderwood are showing signs of making a lot of progress. However, schools in the district are still struggling to make adequate yearly progress. \"We just need to keep the course,\" Bones said, noting that the district has done a lot of work when it comes to literacy and trying to prepare students for the Washington Assessment of Student Learning exams"}
{"Id":"1101162768925","Title":"Local grape prices drop as harvest hits midway mark","Author":"Jamie Smart","Time":"9/23/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Drive past any grape vineyard and the sweet smell of ripened grapes fills the air, but not all is sweet in the grape market. Recent surpluses in the California grape market are reaching out to impact local growers, who are now in their second week of harvest. On top of the surplus in the grape market, Yakima Valley grape growers are looking at a smaller yield, an estimated 130,000 tons, due in part to freezing temperatures last January and a cool spring. Despite the small yield, the quality of the grapes being harvested is excellent, according to Mike Concienne, general manager at the Grandview Welch's plant. \"We are getting good sugar and the wood for next year's crop is also looking very good,\" he said. However, the yield appears to be down this harvest, averaging only about five tons per acre in most areas. \"Last year, the yield was slightly over eight tons per acre,\" Concienne said. While Welch bases its prices over a 20-month contract, he said other growers may be experiencing a drop in prices. \"We've heard that Smucker and Milne have both set prices at 105 per ton for cash growers, he said. \"We're trying to be optimistic that prices will hold steady,\" he added. Meanwhile, cash contract growers like Wayne Sylling of Outlook is concerned about the drop in the grape per ton prices. In an email to the Alderwood Daily News, he said a number of growers recently received word that some of them would be receiving lower prices for their Concord and Nigrara grapes after thinking their prices were locked in. Now growers are asking the question, \"What's up with cash grape prices?\" Currently, J. M. Smucker Company in Grandview and Milne Processing of Prosser are both paying 105 per ton. Yet just two weeks ago, the Smucker Company was quoting prices of 125 per ton. In letters mailed to Smucker growers, company officials said they had originally set prices too high and were adjusting the prices per ton to 105 to be reflective of the current marketplace. \"It sounds to me like price fixing,\" said Sylling, but company officials said the prices just reflect the grape marketplace. Milne Processing of Prosser announced its contract prices as 105 per ton for grapes with 16 brix, a number which refers to the sugar levels in the grapes. \"We are giving premium prices for grapes with higher brix levels,\" said Randy Hagman, general manager of Milne Processors in Prosser. A depressed Concord grape market is being blamed for the lower prices, which means there is a cut in the demand for the grapes. \"It's pretty competitive out there,\" said Dan Newhouse, a grape grower in the Emerald Valley area. \"The surplus of grapes coming out of California is making it harder for us,\" he said. Juice companies are buying more wine grapes to blend into their juices, making it tougher to sell the Concords,\" Newhouse explained. Grower payments are based on sales and movement of the crop, agreed Concienne. \"The prices are just lower this year,\" he said"}
{"Id":"1101162769191","Title":"Snipes Mountain Restaurant to host Nov. 2 dairy conference","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"9/23/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"\"Herd Management - The Key to Progress\" is the theme of the Tuesday, Nov. 2, dairy conference that will be held at Alderwood's Snipes Mountain Restaurant. A dairy systems specialist with the University of Minnesota Extension Service, Jim Salfer, will present two talks. The first, from 9:05 to 10:30 a.m., will address why \"Culling is Important.\" Salfer's second workshop session is entitled, \"Minimizing Herd Replacement Costs,\" which will be presented from 10:50 a.m. to noon. Salfer's experience includes being a dairy nutritionist, a feed department manager, a district sales manager for an A.I. company and he has managed a dairy farm. He currently develops and implements educational programs that improve the profitability of dairy producers. Salfer's focus includes dairy cow longevity and using dairy production records to improve farm profitability. He holds a Bachelor's degree from South Dakota State University and a Master's from the University of Minnesota. The Nov. 2 dairy conference, which is open to all Yakima Valley dairy producers and those who hold an interest in the dairy field, will also feature Jerry Olson as a guest speaker. Having grown up on a small dairy farm in Minnesota, Olson went on to run a mixed animal practice for five years. After obtaining a Master's degree, he then accepted a position with Colorado State University. Olson has also served as an associate professor for the College of Veterinary Medicine at the University of Minnesota. Four years ago, Olson accepted a position with Pharmacia Animal Health and is currently a senior veterinarian for Pfizer AHG. Olson's first workshop session, from 1 to 1:45 p.m., is entitled \"Culling Solutions.\" He will present a second talk from 2 to 3 p.m. dealing with \"Tracking Culling Patterns and Progress.\" Local dairy farmers interested in attending any or all of the Nov. 2 sessions should call (509) 303-9614 for registration information"}
{"Id":"1101162769488","Title":"Alderwood freshmen sustain first defeat of 2004 season","Author":"Bob Story","Time":"9/23/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"PROSSER - The Alderwood High School freshman football team gave Prosser a run for its money this past Monday. But in the end, the vaunted Mustang grid program proved to be too much for the Grizzlies. Alderwood took the early lead on the Prosser freshmen, when Joseph Villanueva bulldozed his way into the end zone from a yard out. The score came in the opening quarter. \"On our first possession of the game we were forced to punt,\" said AHS Coach Glenn Braman. \"But the ball deflected off a player and we recovered it. We drove about 40 yards, with (Villanueva) capping it off with a one-yard touchdown run.\" The missed PAT left Alderwood with a 6-0 lead. Prosser's quarterback, in the second quarter, eluded Alderwood's defenders and broke off a 12-yard TD scamper. The successful exra point kick gave the Mustangs a 7-6 advantage. The Mustang squad increased its lead to 14-6 on its first possession of the second half. Prosser capped off the drive with a 5-yard TD run. Prosser scored again in the third quarter, after the Grizzly freshmen gave the Mustangs excellent field position. \"We only got off about a 10-yard punt,\" said Braman. \"That gave Prosser the ball at about our 20-yard line. They punched it in from there,\" he said. Alderwood cut the deficit to 21-12 in the fourth quarter, when Villanueva scampered into the end zone from 10 yards out. The Grizzlies attempted a 2-point conversion pass, but it failed. Neither club scored again in the game. Braman doesn't have individual numbers from Monday's contest, but said Villanueva rushed for close to 100 yards. In comparing Monday's game with last year's outing against the Prosser freshmen, Braman was pleased with the effort of his club this week. \"Last year, I think Prosser scored on just about every possession,\" he said. \"This time around, they were only able to score on three of their possessions. \"Defensively, I thought our kids played awesome. We made them punt six times. And, we had two fourth down stops against Prosser inside our 10-yard line,\" Braman recounted. \"All of our kids worked very hard Monday night. \"And the good thing is, we get to take on Prosser again next Monday on our home field. It's not every season you get to play a team twice, but this year we'll get the chance to turn the tables on them,\" Braman added. The Alderwood freshman squad is now 2-1 on the season"}
{"Id":"1101162769722","Title":"Briefs","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"9/22/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"1-Column Parent info center open house setfor this Thursday An open house for Alderwood's new parent information and resource center will be held Thursday, Sept. 23, from 5 to 7 p.m. The official ribbon cutting is slated for 6 p.m. The resource center has been made possible through a partnership with the Alderwood School District and the Northwest Community Action Center, funded by a grant from the U.S. Department of Education. The new center has been created especially for parents and adults who wish to become more involved in their child's education, in an effort to improve student academic achievement. The center will provide information and resources in conjunction with the local school district's community technology center. While the technology center will focus on teaching computer skills to parents, the new resource center will ensure parents have access to information on a variety of topics important to student achievement. Yesenia Rodriguez will serve as the new resource center facilitator. She will work to provide assistance to school buildings in their efforts to engage parents directly in student learning, strengthening parenting skills and increasing parents' confidence to communicate more effectively with school personnel. Thursday evening's open house is open to the public. Heartstrings to perform Saturday PROSSER - The Gospel singing group, Heartstrings, is inviting its listeners to a Gospel music jamboree at the Prosser City Park on Saturday, Sept. 25, beginning at 1 p.m. Calvary Baptist Church of Prosser is presenting the jamboree during the balloon rally weekend. There will be other activities in the park, as well, including a car show. The scheduled performers for the 1 to 5 p.m. Gospel music jamboree include the Southern Gospel Quartet, New Covenant, Doug Diamond, Joyful Noise and Heartstrings. Fair admission, parking free this Friday, Sept. 24 YAKIMA - There will be no charge for admission, or parking, at the Central Washington State Fair in Yakima for three hours this Friday, Sept. 24. The special promotion will run from noon until 3 p.m. \"We've had huge turnouts the last two years that we did this,\" said Greg Stewart, fair president and general manager. After 3 p.m. this Friday, the regular gate weekday admission will be 10 for adults and 5 for senior citizens and children ages 6 to 12. Children under the age of 6 will be admitted free at all times when accompanied by an adult. Parking onthe fairgrounds is 5 in the main lot and 4 for the infield"}
{"Id":"1101162769956","Title":"Working Stiff","Author":"Mel Sacher","Time":"9/21/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"This month marks the one-year anniversary since Lisa Ramirez and her husband, Sam, purchased the Alderwood Mini Mart on the corner of Sixth Street and Harrison Avenue. In that time Lisa has become very well acquainted with her customers, who begin steadily streaming into the store at about 7 a.m. every morning and are faithful throughout the day. Many of the customers walking through the door Ramirez knows by name. She knows their idiosyncrasies, what they buy, how they like the money in their wallets arranged and what time they will walk through the door every day. \"I have a lot of customers who come in every day,\" said Ramirez. Most of her customers live in the neighborhood, but she said that she also has numerous out-of-town visitors coming to her business. She said that people from Arizona, Utah and other states come to her store looking for directions or a place to eat. Some have even asked for directions to the hospital. \"It's amazing how many people visit this town,\" said Ramirez. \"I get a lot of people here asking where the Dairy Fair is or how to get to the winery,\" she added. Despite all of the visitors, the Alderwood Mini Mart is still a neighborhood store. When Ramirez first bought the business, it was slow, but with a few changes, including ripping the signs out of the windows, she saw an increase in business. Through the summer there was a steady stream of business, she said. Ramirez had a desire to own her own business for a number of years. A former medical transcriptionist and assistant for a lab, she decided then, that one day she would work for herself. \"I used to have to pick up specimens and take them to the lab,\" said Ramirez. \"One time I had a leg. It was in the back of my car and I was afraid it was going to come back to life,\" she chuckled. She took some time off before her youngest went to school, but when he stated attending classes full-time, she knew it was time to get out of the house. Ramirez opened a book and Bible store before she bought the corner market from a friend. She had worked occasionally at the mart to help her friend, so she knew the ins and outs of the business. \"I knew she worked a lot, but I had no idea how much,\" Ramirez said. She said it was a difficult decision to close the bookstore, but when the opportunity to purchase Alderwood Mini Mart opened up she and her husband decided to try their hand at grocery retailing. Since purchasing the market Ramirez has expanded the amount of products she carries. She has also expanded the lunch items and added breakfast tacos to the menu"}
{"Id":"1101162770191","Title":"Briefs","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"9/20/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"1-Column Port of Alderwood commissionersto meet tomorrow The Alderwood Port District commissioners will hold a specially called meeting Tuesday, Sept. 21, at 7 p.m. The commissioners are scheduled to meet in executive session to discuss the possible sale and purchase of real estate. They estimate they'll be in executive session, which is closed to the public, for about an hour. Tuesday's meeting will be held at the Port administration office on South Seventh Street in Alderwood. Martinez named WSU team leader PULLMAN - Amanda Martinez, a 2002 Alderwood High School graduate, has been appointed to the position of team leader for WSU's Cougar Connector program. A junior, Martinez is studying hospitality and business management at the Pullman university. The Cougar Connectors are an elite group of student ambassadors chosen for their positions because of their ability to communicate effectively with prospective students during campus tours"}
{"Id":"1101162770425","Title":"Eastside Catholic trips up Alderwood grid team, 14-7","Author":"Bob Story","Time":"9/20/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"SEATTLE - Alderwood Coach Mark Marro isn't one to lambaste an official for a call that many would say cost his team a victory. But when asked if the pass interference penalty that was assessed his club late in Saturday night's game was a horrible call, Marro couldn't offer up much support for the referee in question. Simply put, the Grizzly football team got homered this past Saturday evening on the field of Eastside Catholic. A very questionable pass interference call with about two minutes remaining allowed the home team to keep alive its game winning drive. Shortly after, Eastside Catholic quarterback Dave Roberts hooked up with Jason Butler on a 50-yard TD pass that gave the Seattle area team a 14-7 victory. \"It was a tough way to have it end,\" said Marro. Alderwood forged a 6-0 lead on Eastside Catholic when Joe Schwartz bulled his way into the end zone from eight yards out. The TD run came in the opening quarter. Pete Marquez's successful extra point kick upped the Grizzlies' lead to 7-0. To Eastside Catholic's credit, they kept the Grizzlies off the scoreboard the remainder of the contest. But that isn't to say Alderwood didn't have its way Saturday night. Playing in a steady downpour, Marro opted to make the run the featured attack, and boy, did it work. Using the one-two punch of Schwartz and Greg Gilleland, the Grizzlies rolled up nearly 215 yards on the ground. \"The two runners complement each other well,\" said Marro, explaining that the 6'1\", 220-lb. Schwartz is a power runner, while the 150-lb. Gilleland is more of a scatback type back. \"Joe (Schwartz) is rarely taken down by the first hit, and often the second hit doesn't do it, either,\" said Marro in accounting for the 120 yards Schwartz gained Saturday. In contrast, the much smaller but speedier Gilleland picks and weaves his way between defenders. Gilleland scooted in and out and around Eastside Catholic's defensive squad well enough to pick up 93 yards on the ground. The contrasting running styles kept Eastside Catholic off-balance all night long. Much of Schwartz and Gilleland's success toting the ball Saturday night has to be credited, though, to Alderwood's offensive line-especially the left side. Marro said the trio of Pete Garza, Lucas Ramos and Daniel Escobar did an exceptional job of opening up holes for the two runners. Marro did note, however, that some of Alderwood's younger offensive linemen need to make rapid improvement. \"Our line play has to get better,\" he said of the underclassmen. To keep the home team on its toes even more, Marro called enough passing plays so that Eastside Catholic's defensive backs couldn't crowd the line to help stop the run. Surprisingly, considering the heavy rain quarterback Tony Cantu had to contend with, the Grizzly QB connected on 10 of his 17 attempts, tallying 72 yards through the air. And, he didn't serve up any interceptions. Unfortunately, the one miscue Cantu committed came at a most inopportune time-on the Grizzlies' last drive of the night. With Alderwood trying to tie the game with under a minute to play, advancing the ball all the way to inside Eastside Catholic's 30-yard line, Cantu fumbled away a snap that Eastside Catholic pounced on. What is surprising is that Cantu fumbled the ball only once all night long. With the heavy rains, Marro said it became increasingly difficult to grip the pigskin. To those who might point to Cantu for ending the potential game tying drive, Marro said there never is just one play that wins or loses a ballgame. \"We were in the position we were in because of how we played as a team,\" he said. Eastside Catholic didn't get its first score of the game until after the fourth quarter got underway. Roberts and Corey Williams got the home team on the board when they connected on a 34-yard touchdown pass. Eastside Catholic failed to square the contest at 7-all, though, as Alderwood's Chris Guevara raced in to block the extra point attempt. The Seattle private school team grabbed the lead from Alderwood with just under two minutes to play, on the 50-yard bomb Roberts delivered to Butler following the controversial pass interference call. A two-point conversion pass, from Roberts to Williams, accounted for the final 14-7 score. With the exception of the two final period touchdown receptions, Alderwood held Eastside Catholic to just 62 yards passing. The Grizzly defensive unit also only allowed 54 rushing yards. \"Except for those two big plays late in the fourth quarter, we controlled the whole game,\" said Marro. He is particularly proud of the job his defense did against the Seattle team. \"It was a phenomenal effort,\" said Marro, mentioning the defensive line play of Daniel Cruz and Pete Garza, as well as the outstanding jobs that linebackers Charlie Hazzard and Chris Guevara turned in. Marro, too, said he was pleased with the play of defensive backs Noe Zamarron and Pete Marquez. The seven-point loss Alderwood sustained Saturday evening was its first defeat of the season. The Grizzlies (0-0, 2-1) must now prepare for six consecutive Mid-Valley League games, including its conference opener at home this coming Friday night against the perennially tough Prosser Mustangs. \"Prosser always gives you its best,\" said Marro. \"Both us and Prosser have had a rugged non-league schedule, with most of the games on the road. \"When they come into town Friday night, we're going to do what we do well. It will be business as usual, no surprises to speak of,\" Marro said"}
{"Id":"1101162770691","Title":"Eagles fly past G'view gridders","Author":"Bob Story","Time":"9/20/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"GRANDVIEW - A 13-yard touchdown pass from Brandon Artz to Matt Emerson was the only scoring the Grandview High School football team could muster against the visiting Connell Eagles last Friday night. Connell scored just two TD's and a lone field goal, but they were enough as the Eagles hung on for a 17-7 Central Washington Athletic Conference victory. \"We had good field position three times in the second half,\" said first year Grandview Coach Dustin Lamb. \"But we couldn't muster a drive.\" The big reason for that is because Connell stuffed Grandview's rushing attack. The Greyhounds' leading rusher on the night, Silas Hansen, was only able to pick up 31 yards on 10 carries. On Grandview's seven other rushing attempts, the 'Hounds netted just nine yards. \"Connell has some big boys on the line,\" said Lamb. \"They're tough to run against.\" The win boosted the Eagles to 1-1 in conference play. Grandview slipped to 1-1 with the loss. The 'Hounds get a break from league play this coming Friday, as they travel to take on Mid-Valley League opponent Ellensburg (0-3). The two teams played to a scoreless tie in the opening quarter last Friday, but Connell grabbed the lead in the second period on a pair of TD passes. Eagles QB Dan Nance lofted a 57-yard scoring strike to Chris Knight for the first score, then found Trevor McKay on a 17-yard touchdown pass. Grandview cut the Eagles' lead to 14-7 in the third quarter when Artz hooked up with Emerson on a 13-yard TD toss. Artz finished the night with 196 yards through the air on 18-of-35 passing. His two favorite targets were James Vela, who hauled in eight passes for 74 yards, and Hansen, who had three receptions for 56 yards. All told, the 'Hounds only managed 236 yards of offense. Connell got 234 yards through the air and another 104 on the ground. \"Actually, we did pretty good against Connell's rush,\" said Lamb. \"Their leading rusher gained 130 yards, but we held the other two kids who ran the ball to minus yardage. \"Pretty much, we stuffed their run. But they went to their next option, the pass, and that did us in,\" he said. Grandview never did cough up the ball to the Eagles, in terms of fumbles and interceptions, but 10 penalties whistled against the 'Hounds made sustaining offensive drives tough. \"It seemed like we were facing first-and-15 the whole second half,\" Lamb said. Defensively for Grandview, defensive end Cody McMillen posted the biggest numbers. McMillen registered two quarterback sacks and was credited with seven tackles"}
{"Id":"1101162770925","Title":"Lady 'Hounds beat Ellensburg, fall to Selah","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"9/20/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"SELAH - The Grandview Lady Greyhounds played seven games Saturday, sweeping past the Ellensburg Bulldogs in a three-game match, then falling to the Selah Vikings in a 3-1 match. The Ellensburg team was the first team the Lady 'Hounds came up against Saturday, beating them by scores of 25-10, 25-12 and 25-11. \"We paid them back for the jamboree,\" said Grandview Coach John LaFever, referring to the season opening jamboree where Ellensburg came out to beat Grandview. LaFever said one big difference between the jamboree match-up and Saturday's competition was the addition of senior Danelle Cowan. Cowan didn't play at the jamboree. \"We were a little different team,\" LaFever said. He added that overall his dteam did very well against the Bulldogs. \"We played some very good volleyball, until we fell apart,\" LaFever said of the two matches. According to LaFever, his team fell apart about halfway through the match-up with Selah. The Lady 'Hounds managed to win the first game of the afternoon against the Lady Vikings, 25-11, but never found their rhythm after that, falling to the Selah team by scores of 25-21, 25-11 and 25-15. \"Selah was able to take us out of our game and we didn't make good adjustments,\" LaFever said. He added that the Lady Vikings were able to do a couple of things that took his team out of its offense. \"We got a little frustrated and played poorly,\" LaFever said. Overall, LaFever said he was happy with the girls' performance during the first four or five games of the afternoon. \"We're starting to get there, we're showing an increasing amount of promise,\" LaFever said. LaFever noted that both Tonhya Wysong and Cowan played well Saturday. Wysong had 46 digs for the afternoon, while Cowan had 32 kills, 27 digs and 9 blocks. Also helping the Grandview team were Angie Cabrera with 6 kills and 29 digs, Kealey Johnston with 8 kills and 35 digs, Valentina Solis with 18 kills, 6 blocks and 8 aces, Mari Cornejo with 8 kills and 7 blocks, and Chante Bottineau, who had 68 assists. The Lady 'Hounds (2-0, 3-1) will play again Tuesday night at Ki-Be"}
{"Id":"1101162786644","Title":"Lightning bolts past Mabton gridders, 35-7","Author":"Bob Story","Time":"9/20/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"UNION GAP - Ouch! The Mabton High School football team got stung by a lightning bolt last Friday. The LaSalle Lightning racked up a 35-7 Central Washington 'B' League victory against the Vikings. The defeat dropped the Vikes to 0-2 in conference play, 1-2 overall. LaSalle improved to 1-1 in league play, 2-1 overall on the season. \"We didn't play assignment defense,\" said Mabton Coach D.J. Search. \"And, being physical, we didn't show up with that, either.\" LaSalle senior Carlos DeJesus was a one-man wrecking crew. A scatback type runner, he rushed for all three of the Lightning's first half touchdowns. The first came on a 28-yard burst, the second on an 83-yard breakaway run in which he eluded tackle-after-tackle. His third TD run of the opening half was a nifty 34-yard scamper. DeJesus ended up with 152 rushing yards. Surprisingly, he gained all that yardage on just seven carries. DeJesus wasn't the only runner that LaSalle threw at the Vikings. Four other running backs carried the ball an aggregate 27 times, gaining an additional 84 yards. The Lightning added 59 yards through the air on 5-of-12 passing numbers. Mabton's rushing attack wasn't all that bad, as the Vikes totaled 149 yards on the ground. Their quarterback, Ryan Harris, and tailback Ray Elizondo accounted for most of the yards, as each toted the ball eight times for 33 yards. Tailback Jovani Ochoa added a 32-yard rushing performance on seven carries. Through the air last Friday, the Vikes were able to pass for just 9 yards. Harris was 1-for-10 with one interception. Mabton's lone score came in the second quarter. The Vikes capped off a 60-yard drive with a 5-yard TD scamper by Harris. LaSalle added two touchdowns after intermission to account for the final 35-7 score. This coming Friday's game at Mabton against visiting Bridgeport (0-2) will be the 2004 Homecoming game for the Vikings. Search said his club knows Bridgeport likes to spread the field. \"They'll use a single back and like to throw a lot,\" he said"}
{"Id":"1101162786926","Title":"Forum","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"9/17/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"1-Column Students shouldbe allowed to defend themselves Disruption of the educational process, what does this mean to those who administer discipline at Alderwood High School? I'm writing as a concerned parent to voice the troubles I've had concerning one of my children who attends the high school. My son is a senior this year. Since the ninth grade he has had nothing but trouble with other students harassing him and instigating fights. In every situation he was told to walk away and try to find a teacher to help, which he has done before but still received a punishment. First of all, how many teachers do you think are going to be on top of the situation if they're not aware of the problem? Just recently my son was harassed again at school by another student. We were not notified. My son told us of the problem. He was pulled from class on one occasion and was told by an assistant principal that it was only the second week of school and he had already been in the office three times. In our eyes his problem was being ignored by the same people we think should be concerned with the safety of our children when in school. I've had phone conversations with one of the assistant principals and let him know of the concerns I had for my son, and that I was to be notified in the future if any problems occurred, and that I wanted this problem solved with the other students. I was assured it had been resolved. Two days later my son was assaulted from behind. He turned around and defended himself, and tried to walk away but was pursued again. My son was suspended from school for five days because he didn't walk away. The assistant principal's way of looking at it was he should of turned around and walked away. I don't know about anybody else, but doesn't that sound just a little bit strange that if you're being attacked from behind, you should walk away? Maybe if you're Superman, but there are no super heroes here, because if there were we wouldn't have to deal with people like the assistant principals at Alderwood High School. You can't close your eyes and pretend you're living in a perfect world. Instead, you should keep your eyes open to reality. My point in all this is, what are we teaching students at school? I'll tell you what, we're teaching them, no matter what the circumstances are, there will still be consequences for all parties involved. Where do you draw the line? I will continue to teach my children to walk away as I have always done in the past. But I do believe that when put in a situation beyond your control, you will and should defend yourself. We will, of course, go through the proper channels as we've done in the past, to try to appeal the suspension ruling. But here is where things get really odd. You see, your're allowed to appeal a suspension, but that does not stop the suspension. By the time you go through the appeal process, his five days will already be served. So even if you win an appeal, your child will still have missed school. Shouldn't they wait to see if the suspension is upheld? Does it matter if a suspension is served right away or in a week or two? This type of system needs to change and I can only hope it is changed before my other two children attend Alderwood High. Maybe by then there will be a better system. Until then we will have to continue to deal with ignorance. /s/ Sam Dorsey, Alderwood Complaint needs to be investigated This week the U.S. House of Representatives Committee on Standards and Official Conduct, also known as the House Ethics Committee, must make a decision vital to our democracy. Rep. Doc Hastings of Washington state is one of the 10 committee members. This group must decide whether to investigate the serious ethics complaint it received against Rep. Tom DeLay of Texas this summer. According to House rules, no other group or party has the power to investigate a U.S. representative. The charges are serious. They involve outright fraud, money laundering and the illegal use of federal troops to push through the redistricting of Texas. Unfortunately, four of the representatives who are members of the Ethics Committee, including Washington's own Doc Hastings, have taken money from Mr. DeLay or from his PAC in recent years. What does it say for our government when a man charged with engaging in \"pay-to-play\" politics can also pay off the members of the jury that must decide whether to investigate him? If the charges are groundless, let an investigation put them to rest. If, however, members of the committee who have been paid by Mr. DeLay lack the integrity either to recuse themselves or appoint special counsel to look into the charges, then America's representative democracy suffers a terrible blow. What confidence can we then have that our representatives in Washington, such as Rep. Hastings, will actually represent the people whose votes sent them there, instead of representing those who fill their pockets? /s/ Celeste Pagano, Houston, Texas Blood drawing The Red Cross blood drawing held Aug. 31 was sponsored by Alderwood Community Hospital. Yolle Widdows-Guizar was the chairperson. We had 79 presenters and four first-time donors.Thirteen were unable to give, leaving 66 units collected. Because of their efforts, 198 people will have another chance at life. Many thanks to the sponsors for donating the cookies and juice, the United Methodist Church for the use of its hall, Bob Story for publicity in the Alderwood Daily News and Max of Washington Corrugators for displaying the banner at Centennial Square. And then there are the volunteers whose services are always appreciated: Alice Benedetti, Myrtis Lange, Ramona Meek, Ella Mae Lochner and Phyllis Morris. A very special thank you to the donors, who are the lifeline for the flow of blood in the Valley. Hope to see everyone at the next blood drawing on Tuesday, Nov. 2, at the United Methodist Church in Alderwood, from 1 to 6 p.m. /s/ Marie Handy, blood drawing chairperson"}
{"Id":"1101162787191","Title":"Food Fore Thought","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"9/17/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Suzie Loffer Those of us who believe that the sanctity of American agriculture is a cause worth fighting for could learn a lesson from the environmental movement and their ability to connect with people. Most of us can name numerous corporations and Hollywood celebrities that are quick to advance an environmental message yet unable to recall a notable company or celeb that promotes our U.S. food production and those who grow it. Oh, Willie Nelson and a few others will do periodic farm aid concerts to show compassion; sadly, farm aide leaves the impression that the farmer is unable to help himself, not an apropos image for an industry that leads the world in quantity and quality of safe food production. Is agriculture's inability to attract high profile advocates in direct relation to its investment into consumer relations? In comparison, environmentalists are masters at designing a message that creates passion and especially adept at targeting a segment of our population who crave it, our impressionable youth. Like the soft drink companies who determined that they could create lifelong customers by gaining a presence in our middle schools, environmentalists are keenly aware that fostering a relationship at the grade school level, nurturing it through the high school curriculum and igniting it at our universities ensures a lifetime commitment.. It can be argued that FFA and 4-H are agriculture's link to our young, yet these programs lack the magnetism and the financial clout to resonate with the suburban and urban masses. Meanwhile the United Nations has hit the bull's-eye with their campaign to reach more than six million of our most impressionable minds through scouting. The Boy Scouts have partnered with the United Nations Environment Program and it is rumored that their newest merit badge will sport the U.N. Label. This falls perfectly under the U.N.'s long term agenda as laid out in the 2002 UNEP Governing Council's report, that called for the creation of a global movement for children and youth to actively participate in environmental activities with \"the vision to foster a generation of environmentally conscious citizens who will better influence the decision-making process and act responsibly to create a sustainable world.\" The Environmental Media Association is another group dedicated to appealing to generation Y and Xers and is receiving the backing to do it in a big way. Through their generation \"E\" (Environment) campaign, they adeptly use television and film to influence millions with their environmental messages while promoting the fact that they have a \"profound effect on how the public receives environmental information\". When EMA recently partnered with Eddie Bauer it enabled them to run a four-page ad in Vanity Fair and Vogue featuring celebrities who \"think green,\" promoting a 100 percent organic cotton t-shirt that purportedly improves soil quality and promotes healthy ecosystems simply by its purchase (an added benefit to appearing stylish while saving the earth.) It is a great campaign.... but it is one that agriculture should be running; educating the public about the new technology used in precision farming that \"tangibly\" improves soil quality, while creating (not merely promoting) healthy ecosystems by using less pesticide to produce more crops on even less land. It is time that corporations step up to underwrite the message that American Agriculture is beyond\"thinking green.\" A green revolution is occurring in 21st Century American Agriculture, and those of us who care need to unite in an effort to GROW a generation of \"AGtivists.\" Suzie Loffer provides this message for the Food Fore Thought Foundation"}
{"Id":"1101162787426","Title":"Ellensburg blanks Lady Grizzlies, 3-0","Author":"Bob Story","Time":"9/15/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Stevie Fischer's blistering attack from the service line carried the Ellensburg High School girls volleyball team to a 3-0 sweep over the Alderwood Lady Grizzlies last night. The Bulldogs improved to 2-2 in Mid-Valley League play with Tuesday's night victory, while the Lady Grizzlies slipped to 0-2. Alderwood will attempt to nab its first conference win this Thursday night against visiting Prosser. The Lady Grizzlies will play their third consecutive home league match this coming Saturday afternoon against Hanford. With the exception of the middle game of the three-set match last night, Alderwood gave the visiting 'Dogs all they could handle. In the opener, Alderwood forged an 8-4 lead. The Lady Grizzlies' jumped out to the early advantage, thanks mostly to the back-to-back kills slammed by junior Christy Linde and a service ace ripped by senior Erica Mendez. Ellensburg rallied, though, and down the stretch the two clubs stayed within a point or two of each other. In the end, it was the Bulldogs pulling away for a 25-21 decision. Linde had four of her five kills last night in the opening game. Unable to get any kind of a run going when serving the ball, Alderwood was quickly dispatched in the second contest, coming up on the short end of a 25-10 score. \"We got all of our points on sideouts,\" lamented Alderwood Coach Angel Carrizales. \"We never once served a run.\" Fischer was a dynamo for the 'Dogs in the second game, coming through with nine consecutive service points. \"A lot of that had to do with our serve-receive errors,\" Carrizales said. She explained that her Lady Grizzlies will be working on returning serves in upcoming practices. Ellensburg swung out to an 8-4 lead in the third set, \"...but we hung in there,\" said Carrizales. The Lady Grizzlies eventually knotted the score at 14-all. During that game tying rally, Linde collected five straight service points, which included notching one ace from the service line. After Ellensburg rallied to forge a 19-18 lead, the Bulldogs closed out the action with six consecutive service points from Fischer to end the game at 25-18. Despite sustaining the loss last night, Carrizales said there were positives that came out of the match. \"One of our goals was to keep our service errors to just six. We only missed four serves, so that was a very good thing,\" she said. The Lady Grizzlies' top server was Linde. A jump-server, she blasted all 13 of her attempts successfully over the net. On the negative side, though, Alderwood's girls showed they need to improve on their serve-receive efforts. Individually for Alderwood, Mendez and Talia Spini turned in the best performances at the net against Ellensburg. They each had five kills and two blocks. The team's primary setter, Kacee Jo Bootsma, was credited with 14 assists, and Alderwood teammate Devina Martinez collected 24 digs"}
{"Id":"1101162787676","Title":"Pre-school begins annual aluminum recycling drive","Author":"Jamie Smart","Time":"9/14/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Candyce Villalobos may only be 4-years-old, but she is already learning how to help others. Villalobos and her fellow students at Calvary Lutheran School of Alderwood are again collecting the aluminum tabs from soda cans as a part of a school-wide recycling drive to benefit Ronald McDonald House of Spokane. Last year the students collected enough tabs to contribute 400 to Ronald McDonald House, explained Sharon Kilian, Calvary Lutheran School director. She said the children's recycling efforts helps to cover the housing costs of families who stay at the house, while their children undergo medical treatment at the Spokane hospitals, such as Shriners' Hospital. \"We only collect the tabs, not the entire aluminum can,\" said Kilian of the children's tab drive. She said the aluminum in the tabs are recycled and net 35 to 40 per pound. \"All of the funds go directly to the Spokane house,\" she said. \"We started the recycling project in memory of a former student who had cancer,\" Kilian said. She said the youngsters bring in their tabs in plastic sandwich bags or strung together on strings, necklace style. She encourages the community to help the children in their efforts by saving their tabs. Those interested in helping may do so by leaving bagged tabs at the school, located at the corner of Harrison Avenue and South 11th Street, during school hours, she said. People wanting to know more about the recycling program or other Calvary Lutheran programs may attend an open house set for Wednesday, Sept. 15, at the school. A potluck salad and dessert supper will be held at 6 p.m. followed by entertainment by Buck and Elizabeth at 7 p.m. A tour of the classes and a book fair is also planned"}
{"Id":"1101162787910","Title":"Stotz makes the shots to win Banana Belt title","Author":"Bob Story","Time":"9/14/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Ty Stotz's hobby is collecting birdies. Not parrots or canaries, the types you keep in a cage in your living room. Rather, he picks up his birdies on golf courses. This past weekend in the 2004 Banana Belt, Black Rock Creek's most prestigious golf tourney of the year, Stotz collected nine birdies. They helped him to soar to this year's title. Stotz, who's attending Washington State University and is scheduled to graduate this December, knocked down five birdies on Saturday enroute to posting an opening day best one-under 71. That gave him a slim one-stroke lead over Alderwood's Bob Hall heading into Sunday's final round. The eventual winner, a 1999 Alderwood High School graduate, was still clinging to his one-stroke lead over Hall through 12 holes of play on Sunday. But when Stotz went birdie-birdie on 13 and 14, and Hall could only muster a par and double-bogey on the two holes, Stotz widened his gap over Hall from one stroke to five. Parring three of the four final holes, absorbing a double-bogey hick-up on the par-3 17th, Stotz cruised to the easy win. He finished the 36-hole affair with a one-under 143 (71-72). Hall, the runner-up, was five strokes back with a 148 (72-76). Keith Grace and Robi Raab, both playing with Stotz and Hall in Sunday's final group, tied for third low score of the tourney. They each shot five-over 149's. Raab, whose credentials include both Banana Belt and Yakima Valley Amateur titles, posted the third low score of the day on Saturday, a one-over 73, but he quickly fell out of contention Sunday. A triple-bogey on the 210-yard, par-3 second hole put him four shots back of Stotz. He slipped back another stroke on No. 3 when he parred the hole and Stotz birdied it. A bogey on No. 6, the toughest hole on the Alderwood course, put Raab six strokes behind Stotz. Raab played even-par from there, but the damage had already been done. Grace, a member of Toppenish's Mt. Adams Country Club, opened this year's Banana Belt with a two-over 74. The three-shot deficit he took into Sunday's play quickly grew to five strokes, as he bogeyed and double-bogeyed the first two holes. The closest he got to Stotz was four strokes, when he birdied the par-3 12th. Hall, deemed by many as the best golfer of all the current Black Rock Creek members, fell from one shot back of Stotz to three behind at just past the midway point of the opening nine on Sunday. Stotz opened the three-stroke lead by posting a par and birdie on 6 and 7 while Hall took a bogey and par, respectively. Hall rebounded to match Stotz with pars on the next three holes, then made it interesting by scoring a bird on the dogleg-right 11th hole. With Stotz taking a bogey there, all of a sudden Hall was back to being down by only one. The two linksters both parred the short, par-3 12th. But when Stotz posted back-to-back birds on 13 and 14, and Hall didn't respond accordingly, the handwriting became clear that Stotz was in control. Alderwood Christian High School senior Andrew Schutt, 18, hung with the big dogs Saturday, skating through the first 18 holes with a two-over 74. Perhaps feeling the pressure of his first ever \"adult\" tournament, Schutt faltered on Sunday, settling for an 83. His two-day total of 157 left him with the ninth best tourney score. Yakima's Wes Campbell, a seasoned veteran on many of the state's top golf courses, posted solid numbers in finishing with the fifth low score from the 60-person field. Campbell had rounds of 75-77 (152). Ivan Porcayo, another Yakima area golfer, had the sixth low two-day round (77-76-153). In the Banana Belt's Rainier Flight, for golfers with handicaps of 14 and above, Alderwood's Phil Luther claimed top honors. Luther carded rounds of 84-85 (169) to best the next closest finishers by eight strokes. The runners-up were Craig Boge and Bob Hicks, each of whom had two-day totals of 177. Ken Ott and Jim Schlenker were a stroke back with identical 178's. Golfers who cashed on the net side (actual score minus handicap) included: (Concord Flight)-1st-Ken Harle 139, 2nd-(tie) Keith Grace & Robi Raab 141, 4th-(tie) Tom Diener & Ivan Porcayo 143, 6th-Pete Veliz 144; (Rainier Flight)-1st-Bob Barker 141, 2nd-Ken Ott 142, 3rd-Dan Kolb 144, 4th-Dan Clark 147, 5th-(tie) Keith Miller & Steward Rogers 149. Flag prize winners included: (Saturday) long putt on No. 1-Bob Rice (26-2), KP on No. 3-Willie Edwards (0-6), KP on No. 4-Joe Herber (6-5), long drive on No. 7-Rick Pedee, KP on No. 9-Mike Nichols (11-4), KP on No. 11-Keith Grace (2-4), KP on No. 12-Ty Stotz, KP on No. 17-Jack Syverson (9-3); (Sunday) long drive on No. 3-Ivan Porcayo, KP on No. 5-Dennis Burke & Joe Herber (chip-ins), KP on No. 6-Chad Stotz (5-9), KP on No. 9-Robi Raab (1-0), KP on No. 12-Ivan Porcayo (4-10), KP on No. 13-Travis Davis (1-6), KP on No. 14-Dennis Burke (0-5), KP on No. 17-Ivan Porcayo (3-1"}
{"Id":"1101162788176","Title":"Alderwood wins big","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"9/14/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Jesse Montelongo touched the ball just four times in last night's freshman football game between Alderwood and Selah. Unbelievably, Montelongo scored all four times. Montelongo and his teammates went on to thrash the Selah High School freshman grid team, 53-0. Monday evening's victory upped the Grizzly freshman team's record to 2-0 on the season. In the two games the Grizzly freshmen have played this year, they have outscored their opponents by a 98-13 margin. Montelongo scored the first touchdown of the night when he hauled in a 30-yard pass from Alderwood quarterback Adrian Cantu. Later in the first quarter, Montelongo returned a punt 44 yards into the end zone to increase Alderwood's lead to 12-0. Montelongo also scored a pair of TD's in the final period-the first coming on a 34-yard run and the second on a 73-yard breakaway. All told last night, Alderwood gained 262 rushing yards. Joseph Villanueva picked up 122 of the yards on 23 carries, and Montelongo tallied 107 yards on the ground on just two totes. Cantu threw for 88 yards on 5-of-12 passing. He tossed four touchdown passes-two to Frank Salcedo and one each to Montelongo and Nathan Cornelius. The one other touchdown the Grizzly freshmen scored against Selah came at the end of the fourth quarter. Diego Burgueno scampered 25 yards for the score. Defensively, Alderwood Coach Glenn Braman said he couldn't have asked for anything more out of his club. Braman credits the defensive line for the shutout, saying \"...the defensive line put a lot of pressure on Selah's quarterback, especially defensive end Andrew Rios, who had four or five sacks last night. \"Last night's game will be a good stepping stone for next week's game at Prosser,\" Braman added"}
{"Id":"1101162788441","Title":"Briefs","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"9/13/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"1-Column Martinez, Pierce, Sanders, Bodine earn CWU honors ELLENSBURG - Four Lower Alderwood Valley students have been named to the 2004 summer quarter honor roll at Central Washington University. To qualify for the accolades, the students had to maintain at least a 3.50 grade point average while carrying a minimum of 12 graded credit hours of study. The academic achievers include Alderwood's Tabitha S. Sanders and Tiffanie D. Bodine, Gerardo Martinez of Granger and Shannon L. Pierce of Mabton. Alderwood veterans groups to host cancer fund-raiser A seafood dinner to raise funds for cancer aid and research will be held Friday, Sept. 17, at SunnyView VFW Post #3482, 615 North Ave., at 6 p.m. A silent auction will also be a part of the evening's activities, according to Sharon Hallman, president of the VFW Ladies Auxiliary. She said the dinner of oysters, salmon, cod and trimmings is available at the cost of 12, for all you can eat. The dinner is being sponsored by SunnyView VFW Post #3482 and Ladies Auxiliary, Am-Vets Post #3733 and the VFW Men's Auxiliary. The event is open to the public"}
{"Id":"1101162788676","Title":"Shockers blow past Mabton gridders, 42-7","Author":"Bob Story","Time":"9/13/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"MABTON - Like a knife slicing through warm butter, the Waterville Shockers ran through Mabton's defensive squad last Friday night enroute to posting a convincing 42-7 victory. Waterville, the defending Central Washington 'B' League champs, tallied 250 rushing yards in pinning the overwhelming defeat on the Viking football team. The Shockers didn't try to confuse Mabton in mixing up offensive plays, as they threw the ball just twice. Instead, Waterville just came right at the Vikings, shoving the ball down their throats. \"Waterville had to replace four of their five starters off last year's offensive line,\" said Mabton Coach D.J. Search. \"But it was like nothing was missing. They're as strong as ever. \"Their line got off the ball quick. They dominated us,\" Search said. With the huge gaps the Waterville line created, the trio of James Creel, Jarod Biggar and Robert Craig ran wild. Creel toted the ball just six times, but totaled 78 rushing yards and scored twice. He busted loose for a 27-yard TD scamper to open the scoring, and found the end zone just before the half on a 40-yard breakaway. Biggar had eight carries for 48 yards, and Craig piled up 45 yards on five totes. Mabton didn't fare all that badly when it had the ball. Unfortunately, whenever a promising drive got started, it stalled. The Vikings did manage to find the end zone once. Trailing by a 35-0 count midway through the third quarter, Mabton got on the scoreboard when freshman fullback Eli Perez bulldozed his way up the middle for 9 yards to pay dirt. The underclassman Perez showed lots of promise last Friday. He ran for 41 yards on 11 carries. Mabton's fullback, Ramon Castillo, was the leading ground gainer for the Vikes, picking up 75 yards on 14 carries. Mabton didn't mount much of an attack through the air, as Viking QB Ryan Harris only completed 1-of-5 passes for 28 yards. Harris was picked twice by the Waterville defensive unit. Running Mabton's option offense, Harris did scamper for 18 yards on six scrambles. The league opening loss to Waterville followed Mabton's 9-0 non-league victory over Lyle two Fridays ago. The Vikings look to regroup this coming Friday with a conference game at LaSalle. \"LaSalle has a new head coach this year,\" said Search. \"They have a lot of kids out for their team. \"We know they run a wing T offense and a 4-4 defense. To shut them down, we're going to have to play assignment football,\" Search explained"}
{"Id":"1101162788910","Title":"'Hounds open CWAC play with 35-14 victory","Author":"Bob Story","Time":"9/13/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"BENTON CITY - In its season opener two Fridays ago, the Grandview High School football team committed more mistakes than it could overcome in a 32-25 loss to class 3A Alderwood. This past Friday night, the class 2A Greyhounds played nearly error-free. The end result was a 35-14 victory over the hapless Ki-Be Bears. \"We cut our mistakes down from the Alderwood game,\" said Grandview first year coach Dustin Lamb. The new Greyhound coach said his players also took advantage of what Ki-Be gave them. \"Ki-Be loaded the box to take away the run from us,\" Lamb said. \"So we went to the air, and it worked.\" All told, a total of six receivers caught at least one pass against the Bears. Quarterback Brandon Artz's favorite targets, though, were Kevin Concienne and James Vela. The duo combined for three touchdowns. Vela gained 153 yards on four receptions, and Concienne picked up 73 yards on his five catches. Ryan Dill also hauled in a TD pass from Artz, a 36-yarder that got Grandview on the scoreboard first. Artz finished the night connecting on 11-of-17 passes, which netted 274 aerial yards for the 'Hounds. His four touchdown throws easily offset the one interception the Bears had against him. When Grandview (1-0, 1-1) did go to the ground, it was senior Silas Hansen who took the majority of the hand-offs from Artz. Hansen put the punctuation mark on the game for the 'Hounds with his 3-yard touchdown run late in the third quarter. His short scamper gave Grandview a 35-0 lead. Hansen finished with 50 hard fought yards, coming on 14 totes. Teammate J.R. Camacho added six rushing yards on four carries. Ki-Be, which was limited to 192 yards of offense, scored two fourth quarter touchdowns after Lamb began subbing freely from his bench. The win over the Bears came in Grandview's Central Washington Athletic Conference league opener. Grandview, which was dropped from the 3A ranks to class 2A this year, is making its debut in the CWAC this season, after having played in the Mid-Valley League for several years. But if Grandview fans think the 'Hounds are going to have a cakewalk through the class 2A CWAC this season, they might want to think again. Grandview hosts the perennially tough Connell Eagles this coming Friday night, and Lamb says his club has its work cut out for it. \"Connell is huge, and very physical,\" Lamb said. \"They nearly knocked off East Valley last Friday, and East Valley is the top rated 2A team in the state.\" To beat Connell the Greyhounds are going to have to win the war in the trenches, said Lamb. \"Our line is going to have to play big against Connell,\" he said. \"The game will either be won up front or lost up front.\" Lamb is hoping his linemen turn in as strong of an effort against the Eagles this coming Friday as they did against Ki-Be this past weekend. \"Our line did a super job of protecting Brandon (Artz) last Friday,\" he said. The defensive line of the 'Hounds also excelled against Ki-Be, especially defensive end Cody McMillen. Outside linebacker Chris Mejia turned in a strong effort, as well, for Grandview against the Bears. The Greyhounds' defensive secondary might have played even stronger against Ki-Be, as they limited the Bears to just 49 passing yards. Vela, playing cornerback, had an interception for the 'Hounds, and Matt Emerson from the other cornerback slot also shined with excellent defensive run support. . Bob Story,can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or e-mail him at bstory@hawkpress.com Grandview 7 21 7 0 -35 Ki-Be 0 0 0 14 -14 RUSHING - (Grandview) Silas Hansen 14-50, J.R. Camacho 4-6. (Ki-Be) 143 yds. total. PASSING - (Grandview) Brandon Artz 11-17-1 274, Matt Concienne 2-3-0 14. (Ki-Be) 49 yds. total. RECEIVING - (Grandview) James Vela 4-153, Kevin Concienne 5-73, Ryan Dill 1-36, Silas Hansen 1-12, Miguel Calvillo 1-8, John Pedroza 1-6"}
{"Id":"1101162805067","Title":"Sunshine Days celebration plans coming together","Author":"Jamie Smart","Time":"9/10/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"This year's Sunshine Days celebration, set for Saturday, Sept. 18, may only be limited to a single day, but event organizers are packing a lot of activities into the one-day celebration. As a one-day event, the Alderwood Chamber of Commerce hopes to recreate the celebration into an all-community, family event. The day will include food, a parade, the annual Miss Alderwood Pageant, and music to be staged at the Centennial Park gazebo in downtown Alderwood all Saturday afternoon. \"We plan to kick off the day with a community breakfast to be held at Alderwood High School, prior to the start of the grand parade,\" said Kathy Corliss, the Chamber's director of promotions and tourism. She said the Sunshine Days community breakfast will be served from 6 to 9 a.m. and will include pancakes, eggs, ham and beverages. The cost is 5 for adults and 3 for youth ages 10 and under. Tickets are being pre-sold for the breakfast at the Chamber office, 520 S. Seventh St., and at the Alderwood Daily News office, 600 S. Sixth St. Corliss said the breakfast will be an excellent time for high school students to earn a few community service hours. \"Interested teens may call me at 837-5939,\" she said. The Chamber is now taking applications for parade entries, Corliss said. She encourages local groups and political candidates to participate in the 10 a.m. procession. The judging of floats and other entries begins at 8:30 a.m. The parade line-up will begin at 8 a.m. in the Alderwood High school parking lot. The parade route will be slightly different this year, according to Corliss. The route will run along E. Edison Avenue from 16th Street to Central Park. \"We believe this year's parade will be spectacular with at least nine community floats and a minimum of two marching bands,\" Corliss said. \"In addition, this will be the community's last chance to see this year's community float and reigning Miss Alderwood Chelsea Skyles and her princesses Amber Epps, Celeste Loffer and Jill Stroh,\" Corliss added. The Miss Alderwood Court will be on hand following the parade to introduce visiting royalty at the Centennial Square gazebo. The royal introductions will be followed by performances by the Panda Bear Daycare Center dance troupe. At 1 p.m., the Yakima Valley Community Band will perform at the square. The community is invited to bring a picnic lunch and blanket to relax and enjoy the afternoon as the band members serenade the crowds. \"We are encouraging local non-profit organizations who may be interested in preparing and selling lunch items to the public at the park,\" Corliss said. Interested groups may call the Chamber for details. Saturday's festivities will conclude with the crowning of the new Miss Alderwood, during the Miss Alderwood Pageant to be staged at the Alderwood High School auditorium. Tickets for the 7 p.m. event are available at the Chamber office at the cost of 8 each. This year's community celebration will also feature a carnival. Paradise Amusements will be offering rides for three days as a part of the 38th annual community event. The carnival will be set up between Edison and Grant avenues, along South Fifth Street. Ride tickets for the Sept. 17-19 carnival are being presold at the Chamber office at 520 S. Seventh Street. . Jamie Smart can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or you can e-mail her at jSmart@hawkpress.com Search on for parade marshal Know anyone who should be honored for his or her exemplary community spirit? Consider nominating that person to be the grand marshal of the 2004 Alderwood Sunshine Days Parade. The Alderwood Chamber of Commerce is now accepting letters of nomination for the honor. The chosen parade marshal will head the annual Sunshine Days Parade set for Saturday, Sept. 18, at 10 a.m., according to Kathy Corliss, the Chamber's director of promotions and tourism. Corliss said letters may be mailed to the Chamber office at P.O. Box 329 or dropped off to the Chamber office at 520 S. Seventh St., Alderwood"}
{"Id":"1101162805535","Title":"Entertainment Briefs","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"9/10/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"1-Column Harvest Dancefor senior citizens Sunday, Oct. 3 Floor stomping country music, to be performed by local musician Bill Holden and his friends, will entertain those who attend this year's Harvest Dance. The Alderwood Parks and Recreation Department, in conjunction with the Alderwood High School VICA Club, will host the fourth annual Harvest Dance on Sunday, Oct. 3. The 2 to 4:30 p.m. social event will again be staged at the Alderwood High School gym. There is no cost to those 50 years of age and older who attend, plus free refreshments and beverages will be provided. Pfeifers in concert Saturday, Oct. 16 YAKIMA - One of Gospel music's most popular artists, The Pfeifers, will be featured in concert at Yakima's Stone Church on Saturday, Oct. 16, beginning at 7 p.m. Since organizing more than a decade ago, The Pfeifers have enjoyed much success nationally and internationally. Their performance venues have included such locations as Dr. Jerry Falwell's Thomas Road Baptist Church in Lynchburg, Va. and the Mickey Gilley Theatre in Branson, Mo. The group also currently has a \"Top 20\" release with its song, \"Father's House.\" The musical group has also enjoyed appearances on the Nashville Network's \"Primetime Country\" and Trinity Broadcasting Network's \"Praise the Lord\" programs. In addition, the band's weekly television program, \"The Pfeifers - Lifting Jesus,\" is delivered into homes across the country via 20 TV stations and two satellite feeds. Promoters say the group's unique ability to combine exceptional vocal harmonies with brass instrumentation, along with complete lighting and video presentations, creates musical excitement that is appealing to all ages. Fair entries can be turned in as of today YAKIMA - You've canned and quilted your fingers to the bone, and now you'd like to be recognized for all your hard work. Why not enter your quilt or preserved food items into this year's Central Washington State Fair. Fair officials begin accepting all quilt and food preservation entries today, Sept. 10. Entries can also be submitted Saturday, Sept. 11, from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. These entries include both the youth and open class divisions. Exhibitors wanting to enter their quilts or food preservation items can enter the fairgrounds through gate 3. Entries into the sewing, crafts and ceramics divisions will be taken on Friday, Sept. 17, from noon until 8 p.m., and again on Saturday, Sept. 18, from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Entry to the fairgrounds will be possible through gates 3 or 15 on both days. Photography, fine arts and woodcarving entries are scheduled to be received on Saturday and Sunday, Sept. 18-19, from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Baked goods entries will be received Monday, Sept. 20, from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Exhibitors who enter the baked goods division or food preservation category will have the chance to win the coveted title of \"Queen/King of the Kitchen,\" a new contest sponsored by Bon Macy's. The contest is for exhibitors who enter at least 10 food classes. Judges will give points for first, second and third places, and the person with the most points will win the title and an Artesian mixer from Kitchenaid. Fruits and vegetables and other field crop entries will be taken Wednesday, Sept. 22, from 10 a.m. to 9 p.m. and on Thursday, Sept. 23, from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. Flowers may be entered Thursday, Sept. 23, between 4 and 9 p.m. All floral entries should be taken to the Washington building through gate 10. For more information on entering an item into this year's fair go on-line to the web site: www.fairfun.com. This year's fair opens Sept. 24 and runs through Oct. 3. Wine Country Polo event set for Sept. 18-19 WHITE SWAN - Lower Valley residents are being invited to catch the excitement when Central Washington's wineries combine with the heart-stopping action of galloping polo ponies. Promoters promise a festive weekend for both long-time polo enthusiasts and those experiencing the thrill of polo for the first time. The weekend of Sept. 18-19, some of the best players from throughout the Pacific Northwest will face off for \"Wine Country Polo.\" The two-day tournament will be held at the polo field near White Swan (2280 Barkes Rd.). The event is expected to attract between 300 and 500 people. This year, patrons will have the opportunity to enjoy Yakima Valley wines as they cheer their favorite teams to victory. This year's tournament, though, isn't just about polo and wines. It is an important fund-raising event, benefiting Yakima Valley Partners Habitat for Humanity. The Habitat for Humanity group is preparing to build its 100th home in the Yakima Valley. The cost to attend both days of the Sept. 18-19 event is 75 per person, which includes lunch by Classic Events Catering. One-day attendance is 45. Event wine glasses will be available for tasting Yakima Valley wines, and bottles will be available for purchase, as well"}
{"Id":"1101162805926","Title":"Grandview karate instructor has 25 years of teaching experience","Author":"John Panni","Time":"9/10/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"GRANDVIEW - Karate. Many people misunderstand the purpose of the mystical sport of martial arts. Some people don't respect it while others have found that it has a place in their lives. Olegario Luna is one of the latter. Luna, 59, studies the system of Doshinkan Karate. Luna was born in Mexico and came to the United States when he was 1-year-old. He was raised in Texas until he was 12. In 1960-61, Luna and his family moved to Prosser, where they purchased property. Luna's family, though, would migrate to different areas in the country to perform farm labor. Being part of a migrant farm labor family, Luna was forced to drop out of school because he couldn't keep up with his education. Luna would come to meet his wife, Anjelica, in his early adult years. The couple has been married for 32 years, living in Prosser. They have one son, Angel, and one daughter, Rebecca, both of whom have graduated with college degrees. \"We were very proud to see they finished school,\" said Luna. Luna took up karate 35 years ago in Prosser. \"I used to have a friend in Prosser who got me involved,\" said Luna. The first place that Luna trained was in the basement of the Prosser Methodist Church. Luna said the group eventually moved to the Tri-Cities to follow their trainer. Luna joked that when he first started training people would tease him that he was too old to take up karate at the age of 25, which was considered a late age to start. Luna said karate has taught him a lot personally. \"It taught me to be kind of a leader,\" said Luna. \"It gives me a lot of self-confidence. Luna said when he started karate one part of it he liked was how everyone seemed like a part of the each other's family. \"I have met a lot of interesting people in karate,\" said Luna. Luna touched on how karate has changed over the years. He said when he first started his teacher didn't believe in attending karate tournaments. He also said there were only three colors of belt when he started, which were white, brown and black. Luna is a sixth degree black belt. For the past 25 years, Luna has been teaching karate/self defense classes for the Grandview Parks and Recreation Department. As an instructor, he focuses on training, not teaching. Luna said he still remembers his first class. \"We had a lot of young people turn out,\" said Luna. He said the large group quickly dwindled down when participants realized it wasn't what they thought it would be. Luna said a lot of people went into the class thinking they would be flying around doing all the karate stuff they see in movies. Luna said his first class dwindled from 25 participants to two. For the past 20 years, Luna and his friend Alderwood jeweler Dale Beck have been training together, developing a strong friendship. Beck has obtained a seventh degree black belt. Karate has taken Luna many places in life. He has gone to Mexico, Hawaii and Japan to train with different teachers. Luna said he enjoys teaching karate, but uses the opportunity to train and work on his skills. As a teacher, Luna said he teaches his students to strive to be a better master of karate than he is. Under the system Luna trains in, students learn to study karate on more of an individual basis. \"The system is to make you stronger,\" said Luna. \"Make your body as powerful as possible.\" Luna teaches karate classes year round for the Grandview Parks and Recreation Department. Luna said that he doesn't care if he has one student or 20. \"As long as there is one person who shows up, I am here,\" said Luna. Luna said he simply enjoys teaching students who want to learn his style of karate. Luna tries to teach his students to never start problems and that karate is only to be used to defend yourself. Luna said he remembers one of his teachers telling him that with karate a person can do two things. First, karate can be almost always used to help a person talk their way out of a problem. Secondly, karate can be used to help a person never get into a situation where they would have to use it. There are a couple of misconceptions Luna would like to clear up about karate. \"You can't go by what you see in the movies,\" said Luna. \"It is not that way at all. Karate is more about training than fighting. That is the disciple of it"}
{"Id":"1101162806317","Title":"Annual flea market to be held in Bickleton","Author":"Mel Sacher","Time":"9/8/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"BICKLETON - Looking for antiques, books to read this winter or fresh baked goodies? Head for the hills and the fourth annual Bickleton Presbyterian Church ladies flea market, where a variety of goodies will be available for purchase this Saturday. For the fourth year in a row the Goodwill ladies group of Bickleton Presbyterian Church is holding a flea market on Main Street in the small community. The main thoroughfare in Bickleton will be blocked off for most of the day, Saturday, Sept. 11, while vendors peddle their wares, according to Charlotte Williams, one of the organizers of the event. So far, 30 vendors have signed up to have booths, said Williams, but more are expected to join the group this week. The cost of a table is 10. Williams said a metal artist from Oregon and a jewelry vendor from Vancouver, Wash. will be part of the flea market, as will local artisans and collectors. Tables will be lined with antique and collectable treasures, crafts and bird houses, in honor of the host community that is known as a bluebird sanctuary. She said the local scout troop will be selling wine barrels to be used as planters and a variety of food will be on sale. The Rebeccas will have homemade pie, doughnuts and coffee available at the lodge and tamales and Indian fry bread tacos will also be available for purchase. \"We have a lady who will be selling books this year,\" Williams added. In conjunction with the flea market, The Hen's Nest gift shop will be open that day. Williams said that vendors are still needed for the flea market. \"We're hoping to have someone with fresh fruits and vegetables,\" she said. \"Maybe they have apples or pears or fresh corn. Whatever is out now.\" \"We wanted to sponsor a flea market so it would have a variety of everything,\" she added. After having a battle with the weather at the last flea market held more than a year ago, the Bickleton church ladies decided to move the annual event to the fall. \"It looks like we're going to have good weather this year,\" said Williams. \"Maybe we won't have the rain and hail we had last time we had it in the spring.\" The flea market begins at 8 a.m. and will run until vendors decide to shut down for the day, said Williams. \"Early morning a crowd comes through and it's very busy,\" said Williams. \"After lunch it begins to slow down.\" The flea market was started as a fund-raiser to help build a new Sunday school building for the church. Besides the 10 fee, which goes directly to advertising, in past years the ladies asked each of the vendors to give 10 percent of their earnings at the flea market to the church. This year, Williams said, it will be optional. Any money donated to the church will benefit the local congregation"}
{"Id":"1101162807895","Title":"Forum","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"9/8/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"This is an open letter to all farmers in Yakima County: If you do not want another tax shoved down your throat that is hard to swallow, I would urge everyone who can to attend the storm water runoff open house at the Yakima Convention Center (10 North Eighth Street) on Wednesday, Sept. 22. The doors will open at 6:30 p.m. The question and answer session begins at 7 p.m. Most of the farmers do not have a storm water runoff problem. But we will be taxed anyway if we do not act now. /s/ Mark D. Clemmens, Alderwood"}
{"Id":"1101162808317","Title":"Burglars strike in Grandview","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"9/8/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"GRANDVIEW - Two Grandview businesses were busy Tuesday morning repairing broken windows and doors after would-be thieves attempted burglaries in two different parts of town. Grandview police officers investigated a burglary at Dave's Recycling Center, located in the 800 block of Dykstra Lane, where they found a door had been kicked in to gain entrance into the center's office. The burglary was discovered Tuesday following the Labor Day weekend. According to the police report, nothing was discovered missing. Meantime across town, burglars broke a window to gain entry into Highway Tire Store in the 100 block of Wine Country Road. Taken was an estimated 40 in change, according to the Grandview police report. Although there were a number of tools visible at the tire shop, only the money was taken, said Grandview Police Chief Dave Charvet"}
{"Id":"1101162808754","Title":"Villanueva dominates in Alderwood frosh season opener","Author":"John Panni","Time":"9/8/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"GRANDVIEW - There is nothing quite like starting off the season on the right note. Just ask Alderwood High School freshman football player Joseph Villanueva after his amazing performance last night. Villanueva's effort last night against Grandview was simply indescribable. He carried the ball 44 times for 321 yards and scored four touchdowns as Alderwood posted a commanding 45-13 victory. \"He has awesome vision,\" said Alderwood freshman coach Glenn Braman of Villanueva. \"He took it to another level last night. Some of the cuts and runs he made were awesome.\" Braman said Villanueva also shined on special teams, racking up nearly 100 yards on kickoff returns. The first score of the game came in the opening quarter when Alderwood freshman Gibby Briones had a 25-yard interception return for a touchdown. Villanueva scored next, punching it in for a touchdown from four yards out. Alderwood missed both 2-point conversion attempts. Grandview answered with a 68-yard touchdown pass and then a one-yard touchdown run. Villanueva scored both of Alderwood's touchdowns in the second quarter, one from 12 yards out and the other from eight yards. Alderwood made good on a two-point conversion off the last touchdown to go up 26-13 into the break. Villanueva opened the second half with a 14-yard touchdown run. Jessie Montelongo then scored on a 36-yard touchdown run to put Alderwood up 39-13 after a successful extra point attempt. Montelongo had the final touchdown of the game, coming in the fourth quarter on a 20-yard scamper. Montelongo had a nice night, as well, scoring two touchdowns on two carries for 56 yards. He also had one reception for 31 yards. Braman said one thing he wasn't happy with was the penalties. He said Alderwood had some careless penalties that cost them points. But, Braman was pleased with the work of his offensive line. \"They are gelling really well,\" he said. Overall, Braman was pleased with the first game of the season. \"We saw a lot of positive stuff last night,\" said Braman. Alderwood (1-0) hosts Selah's freshman group next Monday, with game time set for 5 p.m"}
{"Id":"1101162809176","Title":"Briefs","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"9/7/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"1-Column State Grangeto administerfarm labor dispute resolution system The state of Washington has entered into an agreement that calls for the Washington State Grange to administer a statewide alternative dispute resolution system. Specifically, the program centers on employment disputes between farmers and farm workers. The Grange will serve as the lead organization in what some are calling an \"historic collaborative effort,\" which also includes the Washington Growers League, a Yakima-based ag organization, the United Farmworkers of America and two statewide legal aid programs. The aim is to create an alternative to costly litigation for resolving farm labor employment disputes. \"The Grange has a long history of bringing fresh perspectives and new ideas to problems facing farmers and those involved in the agricultural industry,\" said Terry Hunt, president of the Washington State Grange. \"Legal problems regularly arise in the labor-intensive fruit industry,\" said Hunt. \"We have a responsibility to find ways to identify disputes early on and get them resolved in a fair and efficient manner.\" Echoing Hunt's comments, Washington Growers League Executive Director Mike Gempler noted that the cost of litigation of farm labor disputes can quickly reach into the tens of thousands of dollars. \"Our members need an alternative to litigation that can deliver fair outcomes, ensure compliance with applicable laws and minimize the risk of the extraordinary expense of protracted litigation,\" Gempler said. \"We believe that a collaborative alternative dispute resolution system will help achieve these ends.\" Patrick McIntyre, executive director of the Northwest Justice Project, which is the state's largest legal aid provider, views the alternative system with optimism. He said his agency's clients seek a prompt and fair resolution of disputes that arise in the course of their employment. \"Living hand-to-mouth as they migrate from location to location, they have no interest in prolonging or escalating the adversarial level of legal disputes,\" said McIntyre. \"We are working and will continue to work hard to find common ground with everyone involved in this undertaking.\" Funding for the alternative dispute resolution system, totaling 100,000 this year, was appropriated by the Washington state legislature this past session. USDA creates register to reach minority farmers Minority farmers and ranchers may now join a new voluntary register to receive information from the United States Department of Agriculture. The register was established at the end of August. \"The new minority farm register is an outreach tool to under-served farmers and ranchers who are not currently enrolled in USDA loan, farm or conservation programs,\" said USDA Secretary Ann M. Veneman. \"The register will create a shared outreach list that will help USDA, community-based organizations and minority-serving educational institutions to communicate with minority farmers and ranchers.\" Veneman explained that by joining the register, minority producers will receive outreach materials, newsletters and program announcements from USDA agencies and from other outreach partners. Those wishing to join the register must sign and date an application that provides their name and address. Applications are available at USDA service centers. Air search nets 620 pot plants Approximately 620 pot plants were seized last Friday in Yakima County during a marijuana eradication operation that was conducted high above the ground. According to Doug Hintze of the Law Enforcement Against Drugs (LEAD) task force, helicopters provided by the Washington National Guard and aircraft from the Washington State Patrol were used in the successful operation. Hintze said seven different growing sites were spotted from the air. The Friday, Sept. 3, eradication mission culminated a marijuana spotter training session sponsored by the WSP. Officers from throughout the state who attended the class, along with detectives from the city/county narcotics unit and LEAD task force, as well as personnel from the National Guard and uniformed officers from the Yakama Nation Tribal Police Department, participated in the operation. Hintze said additional marijuana growing sites are expected to be located at later dates"}
{"Id":"1101162809567","Title":"Wash. State Migrant Council teaching people how to drive","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"9/7/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Not far from where thousands of Yakima Valley residents took their driving test years ago, a new generation of drivers is getting a chance to study up before heading over to the Washington State Department of Driver Licensing office in Alderwood to try for their driver's license. The Washington State Migrant Council is offering drivers education classes at 105-D South Sixth St., on the east end of the old driver licensing department, near the Migrant Council's executive office. According to Cristina Klatovsky and Noemi Ortega with the Washington State Migrant Council, the local non-profit organization was certified to teach drivers education classes at the beginning of July and by the end of the month the first set of classes was off the ground. The first question most people ask when they hear that the Migrant Council has taken on the task of offering drivers' training - is how does that fit in with what the organization is doing? Klatovsky admitted that when you first look at it there doesn't seem to be a connection. However, she explained that the Migrant Council started thinking about offering classes after a successful car seat program. She said during the car seat clinic parents bring their vehicles in to ensure that they are properly using car seats for their children. What the Migrant Council found out during the clinic is that although they were able to ensure that children were riding in cars safely, what they weren't able to do was ensure that the person driving the car had a driver's license or knew how to properly operate a vehicle. \"Talking to mom and dad we kept hearing, 'We don't have a license,'\" Klatovsky said. She added that driving without a license ends up not only being a safety issue for the person behind the wheel and their passengers, but also for everyone who uses the road. \"It seemed to be a problem of high priority,\" Klatovsky said. Ortega noted that upon further inspection the Migrant Council discovered there was no place for bilingual or monolingual Spanish speakers to learn about drivers training. She added that the Migrant Council driving school is the first bilingual certified driving school in the state of Washington. \"There is a huge need out there,\" Ortega said of bilingual drivers training. Klatovsky said when the Migrant Council was first thinking about taking on a driving school, thoughts were of helping prepare adult drivers to pass the tests necessary to receive their license. However, when the school opened its doors staff members were surprised by the number of youths who were signing up for the class. Klatovsky said the Migrant Council was fortunate enough to put two of its staff members, Gilbert Garza and Abdon Valdez, through training and both were certified to teach both adult and youth drivers education classes in English and Spanish. Klatovsky said the Migrant Council driving school has been getting quite a few Granger students in its class, noting that Granger High School is no longer offering drivers education. She added that because there were so many Granger students in the first class, the Migrant Council actually had to run a van up to Granger every day to pick up the students and bring them to class. Klatovsky explained that even though there are quite a few youths taking advantage of the local driving school, there are also a number of adults who are turning out to gain a better understanding of the rules of the road. There are class times set up, but the schedule is very flexible and allows for one-on-one instruction. Someone who can't make it in during the regular class time or who doesn't necessarily feel comfortable in a setting like that, can come in whenever their schedule allows and go through training. Although the driving class is sponsored by the Washington State Migrant Council, Klatovsky said it is open to the entire community. Klatovsky added that it is a private pay program. The cost of the class is 85 for the classroom training and 225 for the behind-the-wheel training. She noted that the driving school currently has two state certified vehicles for use in the behind-the-wheel training. For more information about the Washington State Migrant Council driving school call 1-800-478-2219 or 837-2525"}
{"Id":"1101162850912","Title":"Outlook water deemed safe for elementary students","Author":"Jamie Smart","Time":"9/7/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"OUTLOOK - For a few days last week it looked like Outlook Elementary School children would be drinking bottled water after it was discovered the school's water supply had been contaminated. This morning (Tuesday) the Alderwood School District announced the discontinuation of the bottled water directive issued last Friday. \"The water has now tested clean,\" said Braven Bendzak, the district's facility director. Bendzak said the district took immediate steps to prevent the use of the school's well water when recent water samples failed tests for nitrates. The Washington State Department of Health was notified and the district worked closely with the state Office of Drinking Water to find the sources of the contamination, he explained. \"We always check the water supply before the start of school, shocking it with chlorine to kill any bacteria which may have developed in the water lines over the summer months,\" Bendzak explained. \"Our first water sample proved to be clean, but several days later we found that the water showed signs of contamination,\" he said. An investigation of the school's water lines found the problem was originating in the lines coming from the school's portable units, Bendzak said. \"Normally, all the lines are flushed with chlorine, but somehow the portable lines were overlooked,\" he said. In order to avoid a similar situation in the future, Bendzak's staff has installed a chlorinator to the water supply to provide a steady supply of chlorine to the system. This past Saturday, the test water samples showed an absence of the contamination and the decision to lift the bottled water advisory was made. Bendzak said no reports of illness were attributed to the failed water tests. The bottled water advisory was only in place one day, said Dr. Aaron Bones, Alderwood School Superintendent. \"We worked closely with the state health department to complete the inspections, water samples and disinfecting of the system as quickly as possible,\" Bones said. \"We're pleased to have lifted the one-day advisory,\" he said"}
{"Id":"1101162851927","Title":"Grizzlies get win in double overtime to open season","Author":"John Panni","Time":"9/7/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"GRANDVIEW - This past Friday night's non-league encounter between the Alderwood and Grandview high school football teams pretty much had the look of a season opening game. The Grizzlies needed two overtime sessions to get by the Greyhounds, 32-25. \"It was quite a game,\" said Alderwood Coach Mark Marro. \"We did just about everything to lose it and so did they.\" Marro said the contest was characteristic of a season-opening game. \"We had a lot of mistakes,\" said Marro. \"They (Grandview) made less mistakes than us.\" The two teams traded jabs back and forth on the scoreboard. Alderwood got on the board first when David Pacheco scampered in from 30 yards out. Grandview's J.R. Camacho countered with a five-yard TD run to cut Alderwood's lead to 7-6. Joe Schwartz then picked up the first of his three touchdowns on the night in the second quarter with a four-yard touchdown run. Alderwood missed the extra point. The Greyhounds tied the game going into the half when quarterback Brandon Artz connected on a 40-yard touchdown pass to James Vela. Grandview took a short-lived lead at the opening of the second half when Artz punched the ball in from one yard out. Greg Gilleland came right back for the Grizzlies when he scored on a four-yard touchdown run. The game would remain tied at 19-19 to end regulation play as neither side could find the end zone in the fourth quarter. The Greyhounds laid it all on the line in the first overtime session. Grandview scored the first touchdown of overtime when on 4th and 15, Artz and Vela connected on a 27-yard pass play in the corner of the end zone for the touchdown. Alderwood answered right back. The Grizzlies strung together a game-tying drive that ended with Schwartz scoring on a one-yard touchdown run. Schwartz duplicated his feat in the second overtime, scoring on another one-yard touchdown run. The Greyhounds couldn't piece together a touchdown drive, bringing an end to the game. Marro said Grandview excelled when the Greyhounds were able to run a couple of fade pass plays that resulted in some big yardage being gained. Marro was pleased with the way his defense held up against the powerful running attack of Silas Hansen. Hansen was held to 58 yards on 23 carries. Alderwood struggled offensively, said Marro. \"We weren't clicking real well,\" he said. \"We weren't really up to speed.\" Alderwood didn't throw the ball a lot on Friday night. Grizzly quarterback Tony Cantu was 5-for-14 for 63 yards. Marro said the reason Alderwood didn't put the ball up that much was because Grandview was bringing tremendous defensive pressure. He also said that his team was having a lot of success pounding the ball on the ground. Marro said Schwartz and Gilleland really stood out running the ball for the Grizzlies. Schwartz had 113 yards off 21 carries while Gilleland racked up 96 yards on 12 totes. One area Marro felt Alderwood stood out in was its special teams play. Marro said it was nice to have his special teams unit play well in the first game of the season. Marro especially noted the play of kicker Pete Marquez. Marro said Alderwood really didn't have a kicker coming into Friday's game and noted how Marquez came to the forefront, hitting 2-of-5 extra point attempts. Marro also had a lot of praise for the efforts of Pete Garza, Lucas Ramos and Daniel Escobar on the left side of the offensive line. Marro said those three players were able to open up a lot of different options on the field for Alderwood. Alderwood did miss a couple of opportunities to score. Marro said early in the game, Grandview stopped the Grizzlies from scoring from the one yard line. \"We will get better,\" said Marro. \"I am not completely disappointed.\" Marro said it was huge for Alderwood to open the season with a win. \"It is big for us,\" said Marro. \"Even with our success last year, we came out of the blocks slow.\" Marro will be looking to build on this past Friday night's success. Alderwood (0-0, 1-0) will host Moscow, Idaho on Friday in the Grizzlies' home opener. Moscow lost this past weekend to Timberlake, a team from Northern Idaho, 32-18. Marro said on the tape he has watched Moscow likes to run a lot of spread offense and they also like to throw a lot of short routes. \"They look like real big guys,\" said Marro. \"We will just see how we match up"}
{"Id":"1101162862584","Title":"Penalties costly, but Vikes victorious","Author":"John Panni","Time":"9/7/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"MABTON - Nearly 200 yards in penalties stifled a strong start by the Mabton High School football team this past Friday night against visiting Lyle. But, the Vikes put up all the offense they would need in the first quarter on their way to a 9-0 non-league victory over the Cougars. \"There are a lot of new guys on offense,\" Mabton Coach D.J. Search said of his 2004 crew. Search said he has only three returning starters on offense and the rest are new faces. Marco Zepeda recorded the first points of the season for the Vikings when he booted a 25-yard field goal. Mabton's second score came when senior quarterback Ryan Harris hooked up with Zepeda on a 39-yard bomb. Mabton couldn't convert on the extra point. Harris finished his passing night 3-of-10 for 82 yards. The Vikings racked up more than 200 yards on the ground. Ray Elizondo led Mabton with 65 yards on 10 touches. Eli Perez added 52 yards on eight carries. Harris picked up 48 off eight carries. Ramon Castillo rushed for 46 yards on 10 carries while Jovani Ochoa had three carries for 21 yards. Search said the 16 penalties the Vikings picked up Friday night, which led to almost 200 lost yards, countered Mabton's offensive output. Search said that it seemed like any time Mabton would get a drive started, the Vikes would pick up a penalty that would set them back. Defensively, Search was more than impressed with his team, especially since it was the first game of the year. \"They recognized a lot of things,\" said Search. Search said he was impressed with how his players moved so quickly to where the ball was. \"No one had to make a tackle by themselves,\" said Search. Search said the Cougars simply couldn't move the ball against Mabton's defense, which proved to be the difference in the game. Mabton's defense held the Cougars to just 95 yards rushing and 54 yards passing. \"We are more physical on defense than last year,\" said Search. \"No one is afraid to make a hit.\" Search said offensively Mabton will run more option plays this year and it is going to take his younger players more time to figure things out. Mabton (0-0, 1-0) is going to have its hands full this coming Friday night at home in its league opener against Waterville. Waterville has won the Central Washington 'B' League title for the past several seasons. Search said he feels his Vikings are a more physical team than Waterville. However, Waterville brings to Mabton some experience, especially in the backfield. \"They have a couple of good running backs,\" said Search. \"If we play our assignments like we know we can, we should be good"}
{"Id":"1101162862771","Title":"Future drivers urged to register to traffic safety class Tuesday, Sept. 7","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"9/3/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Alderwood High School students wishing to take traffic safety education are urged to pre-register for the courses Tuesday, Sept, 7. Fall term traffic safety classes will begin Monday, Sept. 13, at 2:30 p.m. in the high school auditorium. Registration for students, who are age 15 as of Sept. 13, will be held at the high school ASB office from 7:30 a.m. to 3 p.m. Cost for the course, which is limited to 100 students, is 285, payable in cash or by check. If additional students are registered, priority will be given to Alderwood School District students, by age. Call the high school at 837-2601 for additional information"}
{"Id":"1101162862990","Title":"Central Washington State fair lineup is a 'carnaval' of entertainment","Author":"Mel Sacher","Time":"9/3/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"1-Column YAKIMA - For 10 days the fun and entertainment of New Orleans will be returning to Yakima for \"Deux Carnaval!, the fun continues\" at the Central Washington State Fair, which is slated for Sept. 24 through Oct. 3. This year's fair has a hours of entertainment for the entire family ranging from the Royal Hanneford Circus under the big top to headlining entertainment on the Oak Park Stage and rodeo action in the Budweiser Grandstand. The Royal Hanneford Circus, returning to Yakima for the second time, will be performing three shows a day for all 10 days of the fair. One of the world's oldest circuses, with roots dating back to the 1690s, the circus was a popular stop for fairgoers and their youngsters last year. The circus is free with admission. Kicking off the entertainment on the Oak Park Stage this year will be country music favorites the Bellamy Brothers. The duo, who will be performing Friday, Sept. 24, at 7:30 p.m., are best know for country hits such as \"If I Said You Have a Beautiful Body, Would You Hold it Against Me,\" and pop hit \"Let Your Love Flow.\" Popular musical comedian \"Weird Al\" Yankovic will be returning to the fair after an eight year lapse Saturday, Sept. 25, at 7:30 p.m. Yankovic will be performing his latest musical parodies, as well as some old favorites. Mama Mia's Bjorn Again will take the stage Sunday, Sept. 26, at 4 p.m. The singers, look, sound and dress like the Swedish singing sensation ABBA. Tuesday, Sept. 28, the country music hits \"Man to Man\" and \"The One\" will be belted out by up and coming musician Gary Allan. He will be performing at 7:30 p.m. Also returning to the fair will be top female rocker Joan Jett, along with band the Blackhearts. Best known for her hit \"I Love Rock n' Roll,\" Jett will be performing at 7:30 p.m., Friday, Oct. 1. Creative prop comedian Carrot Top will be entertaining audiences on the Oak Park Stage Saturday, Oct. 2, at 7:30 p.m. Rounding out the entertainment at the fair will be Hispanic singer Yolanda del Rio. She will be performing Sunday, Oct. 3, at 4 p.m. At the Budweiser Grandstand, Friday and Saturday, Sept. 24 and 25, will be the Northern Sprint Tour Car Races. The races will begin at 7 p.m. Sunday, Sept. 26, at 2 p.m. the Spanish rodeo will take the grandstand. Wednesday and Thursday, Sept. 29 and 30, will be two days of PRCA Rodeo action. The PRCA Bull-O-Rama will be Friday, Oct. 1, at 7 p.m. The closing entertainment for the Budweiser Grandstand will be two days of demolition derby action, Saturday, Oct. 2, at 7 p.m. Sunday, Oct. 3, at 2 p.m. Also as a part of the entertainment will be nightly parades through the fairgrounds, which will begin at 6 p.m. The Great American Duck Races will also be part of the entertainment, as will Nancy Kobert's Amazing World of Birds show, which will have daily performances on the Pepsi Stage. For those wanting a more hands-on experience there's Brad's World of Reptiles, where visitors will be able to touch the reptiles. Hypnotists Jerry Harris and Tammy Harris-Barton will make stars out of audience members at their show to be held every day of the fair at held at the Pacific Power Community Stage. Those looking for a little comedy may find entertainment in three outrageous cowpokes, which will also be part of the 10 days of entertainment. Besides days of free entertainment, special promotional days will also be held during the annual fair. Friday, Sept. 24 will be the KIMA-TV Day, which is offering free admission and parking until 3 p.m. Carnival wristbands will be available for 18 for those wanting to tackle the rides from noon until 10 p.m. Sunday, Sept. 26 is Yakima Valley Farm Workers (YVFW) Clinic Day. The first 5,000 guests attending the Spanish rodeo and visiting the YVFW mobile clinic will receive a free Frisbee-like flyer. Ride wristbands valid from 11 a.m. to 9 p.m. will be available for 25. Fair-goers on Monday, Sept. 27 will enjoy Snyder's bread day. With a marked Snyder's bread sack, the cost of admission to the fair with unlimited carnival rides is 22. Unlimited rides will be from 11 a.m. to 9 p.m. Snyder's day is the only day of the fair that the cost for a wristband includes fair admission. On Tuesday, Sept. 28, from 11 a.m. to 3 p.m. KIMA-TV and Living Care Retirement Community will sponsor half-price admission for all in honor of the military personnel, veterans and senior citizens. Wristbands valid from 3 p.m. to 9 p.m. will be available for 18. Pepsi Family Day will be Wednesday, Sept. 29. Those wanting to attend the fair who bring an empty Pepsi can, pay 20 and receive admission for two adults and two youths (ages 6-12). Carnival wristbands are 18 and can be used between 3 and 9 p.m. Thursday, Sept. 30, is Pizza Hut Little Buckaroo Day. Admission for youths ages 6-12 is 1 after 4 p.m. Wristbands will be available for 18 and can be used from 3 to 9 p.m. The first 500 adults wearing pink on Friday, Oct. 1, will each received a coupon for 2 Pink Panther scratch ticket from the Lottery Booth in the SunDome. They will also have a chance to win the Ultimate Football Weekend and 20,000 on Washington Lottery \"Think Pink, Wear Pink\" Day. Carnival wristbands valid from 3 to 10 p.m. will be available for 18. Bring an empty can of Coca-Cola Sunday, Oct. 3, for Coca-Cola Day and two adults and two children (ages 6-12) will be allowed to attend the fair for 25. Wristbands valid from 11 a.m. to 8 p.m. will be available for 20. Ticket prices for the fair are 10 for adults and 5 for youths ages 6-12 and senior citizens 65 and older. Discounted tickets are available through Sept. 23. Discounted adult tickets are 8.50 each and youth (ages 6-12) and senior citizen tickets are 5 each. A family pack is available for 39. The pack includes gate admission for two adults and two youths and 36 ride coupons. Three dollars in Butler coupons good for games, cotton candy and soft drinks is also included in the package. Butler ride booklets with 36 ride coupons are currently available for 15. Discounted tickets are available at the Central Washington State Fair office, 1301 S. Fair Avenue, Yakima. They can also be ordered by phone at (509) 248-7160. Local singers to perform at Yakima fair Hanging up Italian arias for the day the Rice sisters will be harmonizing country favorites from artist such as Allison Krauss and Martina McBride. Aileen, Erin and Caitlin Rice, all originally of Alderwood, will perform the evening of Saturday, September 25 at the fair gazebo. The daughters of Andrew and Terri Rice of Alderwood, the girls have considered the community their home since 1993. Erin, 22, is the oldest. She is currently a nurse in Pullman. Aileen, 16, and Caitlin, 17, are both attending Yakima Valley Community College and are expected to receive their associate's degrees this June. According to Terri Rice, Erin has been singing the longest. She received a singing scholarship when she was attending college. Since then her sisters have followed suit. They all take voice lessons, and it was actually their voice teacher who suggested they perform at the fair. \"She thought the fair would expand their exposure a little,\" said Mrs. Rice. photo provided by Terri Rice Aileen, Erin and Caitlin Rice (L-R) of Alderwood will be performing country music favorites at the Central Washington State Fair gazebo the evening of Saturday, Sept. 25"}
{"Id":"1101162863256","Title":"Miss Alderwood candidate looks at the colorful side of life","Author":"John Panni","Time":"9/3/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Rayann Van Beek enjoys things that bring color into her life. Things that make each day bright and filled with joy. With this in mind, Van Beek is looking at a possible career in interior design after she graduates from Alderwood Christian High School in a couple of years. The 16-year-old Alderwood Christian junior will be hoping to add her shade of color to the 2004-05 Miss Alderwood Court. She is one of eight young ladies vying for the title of Miss Alderwood during the annual pageant held in conjunction with the community's Sunshine Days festivities Saturday, Sept. 18. The pageant is being held at the Alderwood High School auditorium. Van Beek is the daughter of Norma and Alan Van Beek of Outlook. She is being sponsored for this year's pageant by Alderwood Community Hospital and the Alderwood Fire Department. At school, Van Beek has been involved with volleyball since the seventh grade. She has also been a cheerleader since she was a freshman. \"It was kind of like a spur of the moment thing,\" said Van Beek of her decision to become a cheerleader. Van Beek said she wasn't sure at first if she wanted to try out for cheerleading, but quickly changed her mind once she became more involved. \"It is a great experience,\" said Van Beek. \"We have lots of fun. It (cheerleading) has helped my confidence level a lot.\" Van Beek also likes to showcase the animals she raises, in particular her pigs. She has been involved with various shows since the sixth grade. Van Beek enjoys showing particularly at the Toppenish livestock fair and the Yakima Valley Fair and Rodeo in Grandview. \"I just like working with animals,\" said Van Beek. \"They (pigs) are not as messy as people might think they are.\" Besides being involved with the Future Farmers of America (FFA) program at Alderwood Christian High School, Van Beek is involved with the school's governing body. Van Beek is also heavily involved with her youth group at the Zillah Faith Community Church. For the past year, Van Beek has been a working young lady. She has held down a job in the kitchen at Hillcrest Manor in Alderwood. \"I like getting to talk with the residents,\" said Van Beek. \"They are really funny. They have a lot of history.\" Running for Miss Alderwood was something Van Beek has been wanting to do for a long time. Van Beek received a boost of encouragement from former Miss Alderwood Rachel Jacobsen about competing for the title. Van Beek said she has always had an interest in representing the community in the role of Miss Alderwood. Van Beek said she also decided to run for Miss Alderwood because she viewed it as a good experience. \"It will be a good way to give back to the community,\" said Van Beek. The experience of competing for Miss Alderwood has been a memorable one so far, said Van Beek. \"It is a lot of what I thought it was going to be,\" she said. Van Beek said it has been memorable getting to know the other girls competing for Miss Alderwood, as well as learning all the proper etiquette that goes along with the pageant. Van Beek said what she enjoys about the community is the ever-changing scenery. \"I also like the fact you can go so many places and know so many people,\" said Van Beek. \"It is very beautiful with all the land. The people are so friendly.\" If selected to the Miss Alderwood Court, one of the community service projects Van Beek would like to adopt is working with the local fire department. One of her brothers and her dad are volunteers with the Alderwood and Outlook fire departments. Another of her brothers is a fireman with the City of Richland. Van Beek said she knows how much help the fire department needs in protecting the community and she wants to do whatever she can to help. \"I know what a big community it is,\" said Van Beek. \"I know how much time they (fireman) devote.\" Van Beek said another program she was thinking about tackling is the Toys For Tots program. As far as issues facing the community, Van Beek said the major problem is there is nothing for teenagers to do in Alderwood. Van Beek said that's why the community encounters some of the problems it does with youth from time to time because there needs to be more activities. After high school, Van Beek said she isn't quite sold on what she wants to do yet. However, Van Beek said she is leaning towards interior design or some other field of fashion. \"I am really into fashion things,\" said Van Beek. \"I really like that.\" A passion of Van Beek's is playing the piano. \"My mom made me (play),\" she smiled. Van Beek has been playing the piano since the second grade and has never looked back. \"I just like to sit down and play the songs,\" said Van Beek. \"I could do it for hours at a time.\" Van Beek said being able to play the piano is sort of therapeutic, giving her time to relax from the hustle and bustle of the day. Van Beek said she is looking forward to the Miss Alderwood pageant. \"I think it will be a very busy day, a very nervous day,\" said Van Beek. Van Beek is looking towards her chance to shine on the stage at Alderwood High School Saturday, Sept. 18, and the possibility of representing the community on the Miss Alderwood Court"}
{"Id":"1101162863490","Title":"State WASL achievement gaps narrow, local schools make significant gains","Author":"Jamie Smart","Time":"9/3/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"\"We are beginning to achieve momentum\" said new Mabton School District Superintendent Sandra Pasiero-Davis. Her comments echo the praise given by the leader of Washington state education, Dr. Terry Bergeson, who on Wednesday proclaimed major increases in the Washington Assessment of Student Learning (WASL) scores given to fourth, seventh and 10th graders. Bergeson singled out a number of school districts, including Mabton, that have made notable gains in their WASL scores. \"Washington's fourth, seventh and 10th grade students reached higher levels of achievement on the WASL than they ever have before,\" she said. Scores in math, reading, writing and science rose in every grade across the state, Bergeson said. \"In addition, outstanding gains were made in many of the districts that were struggling to achieve academic success,\" she added. Among those were schools in the Granger, Yakima, Selah, Mount Adams, and Toppenish school districts Bergeson said. Each of these districts made outstanding gains in math and reading on all levels. \"All of these gains can be attributed to the hard work of Washington's wonderful teachers in partnership with support staff, administration, parents community and business leaders and, of course, the students,\" she said. Mabton School District is one of five schools in Yakima County to show outstanding improvements in state test scores, agreed Dr. Jane Gutting, Superintendent of Educational Service District (ESD) 105. \"Significant gains have been made at all of our schools in the ESD,\" Gutting said. \"There are many such success stories,\" she said. \"We're very excited that our district's students' test scores are increasing,\" Pasiero-Davis said. \"Even the students are excited about their achievements.\" . Mabton Junior High students showed 21 percent increases in reading, 20 percent in writing and 12 percent gains in math, while Mabton High School students made 21 percent gains in writing and 14 percent gains in math, said Keith Morris, who is principal for both the schools. Meanwhile in Alderwood, Washington Elementary School's use of the Reading First program is credited with helping to achieve double digit gains in that building's reading scores, said Alderwood School District Superintendent Dr. Aaron Bones. \"Washington Elementary students showed a 27.6 percent increase in reading, as well as a 17 percent increase in writing and a whooping 44 percent gain in math,\" he said. Bones said Alderwood schools all made gains in WASL reading achievements. \"We very proud of all of our schools for the significant gains being made,\" said Bones. \"Washington did an outstanding job of boosting its achievement scores,\" said Bones. Alderwood's results from the 2003-04 WASL were its best over the past five years, Bones explained. \"Our fourth grade WASL reading scores have shown an upward trend and steady growth for the past eight years,\" he said. In addition, four of the six Alderwood district schools also made significant gains in math, ranging from 0.6 percent to 44.2 percent. \"Five of our schools also made upward of 16.6 percent gains in writing,\" he added Bones said Pioneer Elementary School had its highest gains ever with a 20.2 percent gain in reading and a 12.1 percent gain in math scores. Outlook Elementary School made a 3.9 percent gain in reading. In addition, Harrison Middle School seventh graders showed a 4.9 percent gain in reading scores while Alderwood High School 10th graders showed a 5.9 percent gain. PRIDE High School students turned in a 4.4 percent gain in WASL reading scores. Math scores also showed gains at the elementary schools and at the middle school. Credit for many of the gains made by the districts is the result of the implementation of research-based curriculum changes. For example, in Mabton, improvements were made by adopting school-wide improvement programs and a dramatic change in teaching practices, explained school officials. \"We have hit upon the formula for success,\" Pasiero-Davis said. \"We are seeing steady gains year after year and that is the most powerful way to achieve momentum,\" she said. Morris credits the gains to the willingness of the Mabton education staff to share teaching practices and to adopt change as needed. He also credits the students with taking a more active role in their education. \"We are focused on quality instruction in every classroom with high expectations for all students,\" Morris said. Morris' comments were echoed by Bones, who said Alderwood teachers' efforts are similarly based on research-based curriculum changes. \" \"The good news is we are seeing benchmark growth from fall to spring,\" Bones said. \"\"It's clear that our decade-long efforts to improve Washington schools are working,\" agreed Bergeson. \"We know now how to improve students' reading comprehension, writing and mathematics skills. The primary challenge now is to commit the resources to spread these strategies across the state so that every school and district can benefit from them,\" Bergeson said. . Jamie Smart can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or you can e-mail her at jSmart@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101162863724","Title":"Obituaries","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"9/3/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"JOHN JACK MARSHALL FARMER JOHN JACK MARSHALL FARMER John Jack Marshall Farmer, 79, of Blackfoot, beloved husband, father, grandfather, and great-grandfather passed away from this life Sept. 1, 2004, at his home in Blackfoot, Idaho, surrounded by loving family. He will be greatly missed by all who knew him for his wonderful sense of humor and his love of living. John was born April 30, 1925 to Jess Crosby Farmer and Ester Daphna Marshall Farmer in Deaver, Wyo. He married Dorothy Wold Aug. 27, 1946 in the Salt Lake Temple and they became the parents of seven children, who gave them 35 grandchildren and 16 great-grandchildren. John was raised on a farm in the little town of Deaver located in northwestern Wyoming where he attended grade school and high school. He graduated from the University of Wyoming with a Bachelor of Science degree in agriculture. He was a member of Alpha Zeta, the National Agriculture Honorary Society and was also a member of Lambda Delta Sigma while attending the University of Wyoming. He worked in the field of agriculture all his life and was transferred to Blackfoot, Idaho in 1968 by the American Oil Company. He made Blackfoot his home for the remainder of his life. He taught vocational agriculture at Idaho State University for several years. He enjoyed gardening and became a Master Gardener. He particularly enjoyed growing roses and entered them in the Eastern Idaho State Fair, taking ribbons on them. He loved tinkering is his shop, where he built machinery and was always looking for new ways to do old things. He was an active lifetime member of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, where he held numerous positions. He and Dorothy enjoyed serving two missions for the church, first in West Virginia and the second in Florida. What he enjoyed most and took the greatest pride in was the wonderful family he was blessed with. He loved each of them dearly and they loved him in return. He has left them a great legacy of love. He is survived by his wife, Dorothy of Blackfoot, Idaho; four sons, Mike (Linda) Farmer of Alderwood, John (Marilyn) Farmer of Centerville, Utah, David (Pam) Farmer of Hemet, Calif., Gary (Jolene) Farmer of Blackfoot, Idaho; three daughters, Debbie (Jim) McFarland of Orem, Utah, Jennifer (Dan) Crites of Blackfoot, Idaho, Janette (Walter) Johnson of Mesa, Ariz.; 33 grandchildren and 15 great-grandchildren; one brother, Wayne (Isabel) Farmer of Quincy; and two sisters, Ilene (Phil) Whaley of Conrad, Mont. and Ruth Krueger of Prosser. He was preceded in death by his parents; two grandchildren; and one stillborn great-grandchild. Funeral services will be held Saturday, Sept. 4, 2004, at 3 p.m. at Blackfoot 2nd Ward LDS Chapel, 660 Teton Drive, Blackfoot, Idaho. The family will meet with friends and relatives from 7 to 9 p.m. Friday, Sept. 3, 2004 at Hawker Funeral Home and again for one hour prior to services at the church. Interment will be in Riverside-Thomas Cemetery. The family would like to thank the Aspen Home Health and Hospice and Dr. Jeffrey Liles for their loving care. HERMINIA V. MENDOZA Herminia V. Mendoza, 68, of Alderwood passed away Tuesday, Aug. 31, 2004, at Yakima Regional Hospital. Herminia was born Feb. 5, 1936 in The Philippines, daughter of Catalina Santos and Patrocinio Villanueva. Herminia received her education in The Philippines. On Sept. 12, 1962 she married Leonardo Mendoza in The Philippines. In 1988 the Mendoza family moved to Alderwood, where Herminia worked in housekeeping at Hillcrest Manor. She enjoyed traveling, shopping, cooking and watching Filipino movies. Herminia is survived by her husband, Leonardo Mendoza of Alderwood; one son, Florencio Mendoza and wife, Jocelyn, of Union Gap; one daughter, Maria Lisa Mendoza and husband, Wilfredo, of The Philippines; her mother, Catalina Sutton of Alderwood; three grandchildren; two sisters, Erlinda Soliman and Helen Gonzalez, both of Alderwood; and Thomas Sutton of Grandview; and a niece, Roma Joana Mendoza of Spokane. She was preceded in death by her father. Memorial Mass will be held Saturday, Sept. 4, 2004, at 10 a.m. at St. Joseph Catholic Church in Alderwood. Wells Funeral Home, Alderwood, is in charge of arrangements"}
{"Id":"1101162863959","Title":"Spokane family first to participate in innovative conservation program","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"9/2/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"SPOKANE - Eight years ago, when Bill and Dean McLean switched from their traditional farming methods to a conservation-based approach, they believed their investment would pay off - someday. Through the years, it has. They've seen erosion rates on their dry land farm reduced, soil quality improved, and their entire operation become more consistent and sustainable - even through prolonged periods of drought. Recently, that investment in conservation paid off again. The McLeans, who farm near Coulee City, were recognized at a ceremonial signing event held in Spokane last week as Washington's first agricultural producers to participate in USDA's Conservation Security Program (CSP). Authorized in the 2002 Farm Bill, CSP is a voluntary program that provides financial and technical assistance to promote the conservation and improvement of soil, water, air, energy, plant and animal life, and other conservation purposes on Tribal and private working lands. The program supports ongoing stewardship of private agricultural lands by providing payments for maintaining and enhancing natural resources. \"While conservation incentive programs and technical assistance from USDA date back to the Dust Bowl days of the 1930s,\" said Natural Resources Conservation Service (NRCS) State Conservationist Gus Hughbanks, \"CSP represents the first time agricultural producers are being paid for ongoing stewardship.\" Hughbanks' agency administers the program, which is expected to be available to farmers in the Yakima Valley later this year. The McLeans farm in the Moses Coulee Watershed, which was one of only 18 watersheds nationwide - and the only watershed in Washington - to be included in the program's debut-year. Of the 83 applications in the watershed, 43 met the minimum requirements for water quality and soil quality, according to the NRCS. Of the 43 qualifying applications, 13 were approved for Tier I; 26 for Tier II; and four for Tier III, Hughbanks said. \"Those applicants who met the minimum requirements will be participating in three different tiers reflecting both their documented historical conservation management, Hughbanks said. He said farmers who sign the agreement also agree to implement additional practices to further enhance the environment. Hughbanks said that producers would receive annual payments between 550 to 12,135 for Tier I contracts; 380 to 30,625 for Tier II contracts; and 2,366 to 35,300 for Tier III contracts. The payments are for a broad range of conservation work that protect and enhances natural resources, including water quality, soil quality and wildlife habitat. All successful applicants have achieved high technical standards for protecting soil and water quality,\" he said. \"Farmers, such as the McLean family, are model conservationists who we can point to as our first line of defense in managing ecosystems like the Moses Coulee Watershed with both productivity and careful stewardship as twin goals,\" Hughbanks said. Nationally, the 2,188 farmers and ranchers who were awarded CSP contracts currently represent 1.88 million acres. Work done by the producers in the 18 selected watersheds will eventually benefit both their own watersheds and the people and resources downstream. Announcements regarding which Washington watersheds will be selected for the program next are expected later in the year, Hughbanks said. \"Producers can look at the conservation activities of these successful CSP applicants now,\" he said, \"so they can ready their farms and ranches for the time when their watershed is selected.\" The NRCS offers technical assistance and a \"portfolio\" of other conservation programs to help producers implement conservation activities that can help them qualify for CSP, Hughbanks said. \"The key,\" he said, \"is to begin early.\" Hughbanks said the McLeans represent the best of Washington's conservation community. \"They, like hundreds of other Washington producers, are doing what no single program or agency is capable of doing - they are protecting the natural resources upon which all future generations of Americans depend,\" he said. \"This is an historic time for Washington's agricultural producers, and it's a new day for conservation,\" Hughbanks said. photo courtesy of USDA's Conservation Security Program Eastern Washington dry land farmers Bill and Dean McLean, who have spent the past eight years investing in conservation-based farming methods, were recently honored as Washington's first agricultural producers to participate in the USDA's Conservation Security Program"}
{"Id":"1101162879115","Title":"Credit retrieval program helps keep high school students on track for graduation","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"9/2/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Failing a class at Alderwood High School used to mean having to attend summer school and hoping that any of the courses failed would be offered at that time. However, in the last year something has changed in the way the high school deals with credit retrieval. Instead of being put on a waiting list for summer school courses, students are now given a chance to make up the missed credits during the regular school day or after school through the 21st Century Learning Center. Alderwood High School Principal Dennis Birr said last year the school started operating NovaNET, a computer-based credit retrieval program. The program offers curriculum in the subjects of math, English, social studies, science and health. Birr said the school district looked long and hard before it was decided that NovaNET would be used for credit retrieval, noting that teachers and other staff members were looking for a curriculum that closely matched the state's essential learning requirements, as well as the curriculum already being used at Alderwood High School. Birr said NovaNET is a web-based program that Alderwood accesses through Educational Service District (ESD) 105, based out of Yakima. The Alderwood School Board recently approved a service agreement with ESD 105 for the use of 50 NovaNET ports. The cost of the agreement was 50,000. Half of the NovaNET ports are set up in one of the high school's computer labs, a space that contains 25 computers. There are also nearly a dozen laptop computers that can access NovaNET that are used in other classrooms. Birr noted that PRIDE High School will also be using nearly a dozen NovaNET ports this year, offering the computer-based credit retrieval curriculum there, as well. Birr said last year, NovaNET was available to students in need of credit retrieval for a couple of periods during the school day, as well as after school through the 21st Century Learning Center. He noted that during that time there was a teacher who oversaw the computer lab and helped ensure students were progressing as needed. Birr said, even offering the credit retrieval program on a limited basis, more than 115 credits were retrieved last year through the use of NovaNET. \"We were just really pleased with it,\" Birr said. The school was so pleased with the program that this year eight periods of NovaNET are being offered during the school day, and it is still being made available through the 21st Century Learning Center for those students who need the service but can't fit it into their regular schedules. Birr said one of the reasons the school is able to offer NovaNET every period all day long, including several periods where two teachers are offering additional credit retrieval, is because of a switch in staffing. He said a teacher left the school from one area of teaching was moved into credit retrieval. Birr explained that teachers who oversee students using the credit retrieval program help with pre-testing students to find out which portions of the curriculum they might need to repeat, or whether or not a student will have to repeat an entire class. He said the teachers are also responsible for going back to the teacher the student had for the original class they failed, to find out where the student struggled. Birr noted that another responsibility of the overseeing teacher is to test students after they have completed the curriculum to ensure that they have an understanding of what the class was about and will be able to get the credits they need. Birr said last year NovaNET was something the school chose to offer to mostly 11th and 12th grade students, those students who were closer to graduation. This year, Birr said, the school is already offering NovaNET to 10th, 11th and 12th graders and has plans to open it up to ninth grade students at the end of the semester. Birr said he feels that NovaNET is something that will help the local graduation rate. \"It helps them stay on track,\" Birr said. According to Birr, before NovaNET, students who were in need of credit retrieval would have to either attend summer school or take classes at PRIDE High School to get back on track for graduation. \"Some students were going [to school] full time here,\" Birr said. \"And catching up on credits at PRIDE after school.\" Birr said at this point in the school year there are already 194 10th, 11th and 12th grade students using NovaNET during the school day"}
{"Id":"1101162879397","Title":"Networking, socializing enjoyed at first Chamber after hours event","Author":"Jamie Smart","Time":"9/1/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"After many attempts to create the perfect marketing strategy for their specialized product, Alderwood's Lloyd and Ellen Phinney have discovered two important things. Men are the big ticket buyers in most families and most Alderwoodrs are unaware that the Knothole Gallery on Yakima Valley Highway offers one of the few places in Eastern Washington where the popular Thomas Kinkade paintings can be purchased. Those two important points were discussed during the first of a new series of Alderwood Chamber of Commerce after hours events held Tuesday night at the Phinneys' business, located next to the China Grove Restaurant. \"Our target demographic is men, especially those who watch golf,\" said Mrs. Phinney. \"Women look at our paintings. They love them, but it is the men who come in and buy the large ticket pieces,\" she said. \"Women always tell me they have to ask their husbands before they can spend upwards of 1,000 per painting,\" she explained. \"They do buy a lot of our smaller, less expensive items,\" she added. The couple told the more than 25 people attending the Chamber event they launched a number of advertising campaigns before settling on a television advertising campaign, which is finally yielding the desired results, Mr. Phinney said. \"We get our best response from our spots which run closest to sporting events, like golf, and new programs, such as 'Good Morning America',\" he explained. The couple said they get a lot of business from the Tri Cities and Yakima areas. \"But we continue to hear a lot of people say they were unaware we were here,\" said Mrs. Phinney. \"We are happy so many of you decided to come and see us at this event,\" she added. Choosing the Knothole Gallery as its first host for the Chamber after hours event was a matter of the Chamber wanting to help promote a local business and the need to launch its new membership program, said Kathy Corliss, the Chamber's director of promotions and tourism. \"Lloyd and Ellen Phinney came to us asking what they could do to make more Alderwoodrs aware that they are the Thomas Kinkade dealers in town. Asking them to host this event also fell right into our plan to reinstate the after hours program,\" she explained. \"I'm pleased to see so many new faces at this event,\" she added. The long-time Alderwood couple originally opened their business in the Alderwood Mini- Mall, but soon found they needed a location with more curbside exposure. Their current Yakima Valley Highway location offers the couple that exposure, as well as additional room for larger displays of the Gallery's paintings and related products. Open six-days-a-week, the couple also makes use of the Internet to help advertise their business. They also make use of an extensive mailing list, said Mrs. Phinney. \"We currently have 1,200 people on our mailing list, who can look forward to getting the Thomas Kinkade Gallery Christmas catalog in a few weeks, she added. In addition to learning more about the Phinneys' gallery and the extensive line of Thomas Kinkade projects, those who attended the after hours event learned a little more about other events being planned in Alderwood. Alderwood High School senior Lizeth Chiprez asked the chamber members and guests for support of her senior project. The enterprising young woman has developed a tutoring program for students preparing to take their college entrance exams. \"So many of our students need additional study with such things as vocabulary and literature in order to pass their SATs,\" she told the group. This past summer Chiprez created a plan to offer after school tutoring to college-bound students using Heritage College students as mentors. \"But I need your help to purchase the necessary study books,\" she said. She said she has made arrangements to purchase the books, at the cost of 5 each. \"I'm hoping you will be willing to donate to this important cause,\" she explained. \"We plan to serve 80 students in the first year,\" Chiprez said, adding she hopes the program will expand in the future.\" \"This type of networking is exactly what we hoped the after hours program would encourage,\" said Tom Gaulke, president of the Chamber board of directors. \"We are hoping all of those who attended this first event will be come Chamber members, if they aren't already,\" he added. The next Chamber after hours program will be held at the Alderwood Worksource office in the Mid Valley Mall on Tuesday, Sept. 28. Jessie Hernandez will provided a short program on estate planning, following a tour of the state employment and training service office"}
{"Id":"1101162879631","Title":"Working Stiff","Author":"Jamie Smart","Time":"9/1/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"A term of service in AmeriCorps led Sheila Cerda to her present occupation. \"I learned about being a receptionist while volunteering in the AmeriCorp service,\" Cerda explained. \"I worked at the Alderwood Police Department for a while, I learned to do dispatching,\" she said. But it was a volunteer position at Alderwood Community Hospital which led her to her present employment. \"I volunteered as a receptionist at the hospital for about a year,\" she explained. \"When my AmeriCorps term was up, the hospital hired me as a receptionist,\" she said. Currently, the petite mother of two works three days a week as a technical assistant in the X-ray department at Alderwood Community Hospital, and one day a week she works as a front desk receptionist at Alderwood's Lincoln Avenue Family Medicine Center. \"The technical assistant title means I'm a receptionist,\" she grinned. \"But I also get to do other things like moving files between departments, help with patients and do a lot of data entry,\" she said. Both of her jobs involve a lot of paperwork, in addition to greeting patients with a cheerful and compassionate attitude and her welcoming smile. Between her two jobs, she works an average of 40 hours a week, she said, noting that her X-ray department job has her working three 10-hour days while her Lincoln Avenue job has her working a regular 8-hour day. At the family health clinic, Cerda answers phones, schedules patients and helps patients check in for their visit with the clinic's physicians. \"I really like the work,\" she smiled. The 1989 Alderwood High School graduate and her husband, Francisco Cerda Jr., have two children, a daughter, who will be 13 in a few days, and a 5-year-old son, who is a kindergarten student this year"}
{"Id":"1101162880756","Title":"Forum","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"9/1/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"1-Column GHS Follies On behalf of all the students, teachers and volunteers involved in the first annual Grandview High School Follies, I would like to thank the Alderwood Daily News for the excellent coverage of our debut production that took place this past May. An incredible amount of time and work was put into our show and we appreciate the publicity of the local newspaper. We also owe endless gratitude to all of our supporters and contributors, which are comprised of the following: Gayla Boast, Tim Bennett, Mike Closner, Kevin Bones, Laurene Contreras, Jack Dalton, GEAR-UP, Tim Grow, Martin Guillen, Arcella Hall, Shelby Hall, Mary Herrera, Tracy King, John LaFever, Andrea Martinez, Joe and Lupe Martinez, Eileen Mathews, Rick and Vicki McLean, Mid-Valley Chrysler, Genoveva Morales-Ledesma, Movie Gallery, Kenny and Joci Nelson, Pizza Hut, Elizabeth Ray, Christy Rodriguez, Safeway, Travel Connection, University of Washington, WSU-Tri Cities Latino Outreach, and the judges Mike Carpenter, Dottie and Sil Cervantes, Gretchen Chronis, Dirk Desserault, and Karen and Joe Veloz. Thank you, parents and community members, for attending our Follies production. Our tremendously talented group of students who participated in the production should be very proud. Because of extraordinary support we received, we surpassed our monetary goal by 50 percent. /s/ Danika Martinez, GHS class of 2007 president Public encouraged to get involved with 4th of July celebration here I am an active citizen who enjoys participating in local activities, as well as getting others involved in doing the same. I recently helped coordinate a fund-raiser for the Fourth of July celebration. We had donation jars at businesses all around town, asking for money to help pay for the public fireworks display at the Alderwood High School football field. This display is free to the public. This was a success, however, we need to start planning for next year. Our fireworks display could be a lot bigger if we all pitched in and helped fund this project. We need to turn in funds for this project by June 1, 2005. Our proposal is you, the public and the citizens of Alderwood, help fund this project by donating all your aluminum cans. If everyone donated their cans we could raise enough money to have a spectacular one-hour show for the 2005 Fourth of July display. We know that if we all work together we can accomplish anything. I spoke with Dave's Recycling Center in Grandview and I have opened an account for this project. If you recycle your items at this location and would like to donate all or part of your profits for this project, just let them know at the counter and they will take your donation and deposit it into the \"Citizens of Alderwood Fund.\" We will furnish the containers for the aluminum cans, as well as monitor them and pick them up as often as needed. Currently, we have secured one site at the law and justice center, on First Street, near the recycling dumpsters. We are presently trying to secure more sites where citizens can drop off their aluminum can donations around town. We need your help. Won't you please help by providing a container site? Won't you please help by donating your aluminum cans and drop them off at the designated site near the law and justice center? Won't you please help by donating some or all of your recycling profits at Dave's Recycling Center? Won't you please help by hosting a donation jar at your business to raise funds for next year's fireworks display? If you are able to help with this worthwhile community project we would greatly appreciate your support. Please contact me at 837-6340. /s/ Carol Stone, Alderwood Casino night It's a shame more people didn't show up for the casino night on Friday, Aug. 13, at the Alderwood Senior Center. The ones who came certainly enjoyed the evening. When we entered the center we were given 200 in play money. The kitchen counter was filled with all sorts of goodies, including delicious sandwiches. After eating we chose games we wished to play to earn more money so at the end of the evening we'd have enough play money to bid on items offered in the auction. All in all, it was a fun evening for all us seniors. The emcee, Don Stiles, makes us all laugh and he did a great job as usual. All of us send a great big thank you to those who helped make casino night possible for all of us. Also, thanks to the young man who carried out my winnings to the car in the dark. We had a wonderful evening. /s/ Bernice Seward, Alderwood Fairs threatened The Yakima Valley Fair & Rodeo in Grandview recently concluded another delightful year, with dedicated kids entering food, craft, clothing and livestock exhibits all while figuring out ways to stay cool. And it would be a shame to lose this fair, disappointing a lot of kids and parents who count on participating every year. Grandview's fair is just one of three community fairs held annually in the Yakima Valley, besides Toppenish's and West Valley's. How are these fairs threatened? Because the county budget of 390,000 for Yakima County WSU Extension's match is in jeopardy. While about 80 percent of the county's nearly 55 million budget for law and justice is essential in keeping our communities safe, it is also essential to keep the positive impacts that Extension brings to the residents of Yakima County. 4-H is based in the Extension Service. If Extension was eliminated, the 4-H program in Yakima County would be eliminated. Hundreds of youth in 4-H and FFA participate in county fairs, yet 4-Hers participate about 10 to 1 over those in FFA which means the fairs would probably collapse due to lack of participation. This is exactly what happened in Multnomah County in Oregon. 4-H is just a tip of the iceberg of the benefits of Extension. Extension agents in horticulture and livestock advance those industries with information in cutting edge technology and research. Agriculture is a foundation of Yakima County. The Extension Service is exemplary in using volunteers to improve lifestyles of residents by teaching food safety, improved nutrition, sewing, gardening and living on a budget, to name a few. 390,000 is a small portion, creating a huge positive impact, of the 55 million county budget. Yakima County receives approximately two times the match in resources for its investment in WSU Extension. If the money is not approved for Extension, it will be sorely missed, and cause a \"trickle down\" effect with a loss of valuable industry information, household education and community fairs in Toppenish, West Valley and Grandview. /s/ Karin Argo, Zillah Vote for righteousness Yes Bob (Story), you are correct, when you said, \"who do we vote for?\" Regarding the U.S. Senate, I would like to share the following: the Bible says, \"righteousness exalts a nation.\" Here is our chance to vote for righteousness (www.bradklippert.com). Be sure to click on the link \"Sound the Alarm.\" This man's brochure and web site make no bones about his Godly stance. It states, \"a God-fearing, Bible-believing, Ten Commandments-honoring evangelical Christian.\" Oh, that God fearing people would vote their conscience. /s/ Barbara Mortensen, Alderwood Softball tourney What a great weekend we had in Alderwood, with a 20-team softball tournament at SunnyView Park. For those who think SunnyView's ball fields don't get used, you are very wrong. With 15 of the 20 teams being from out of town, just imagine what kind of revenue Alderwood generated. Players and their families stayed overnight and ate at various restaurants, or shopped at local stores. Fifteen teams times 14 players per team, plus families, makes for a lot of money spent in town. I, myself, spent the 2,200 for tournament expenses here locally. I want to thank the city park staff for its excellent work all week to prepare the fields for use. We had quite a few compliments. Also, I want to thank our sponsors: Aztlan Sportswear, El Valle Restaurant and The Valley's Market. Thanks also to Linda, Jaime, Bobby Jr., Jessica, Andre and Bobby III Sarmiento, and Rene and Yolanda Montelongo, for all their hard work. Without everyone's help this success wouldn't have taken place. /s/ Bob Sarmiento Sr. Guard rail efforts I want to especially thank one individual who has taken on several projects and volunteered all her time and effort. Carol Stone has done an excellent job in organizing the plantings along the guard rail. Carol organized all of the volunteers to plant the hundreds of bulbs and starts in this area in Alderwood. She donated most of the items and received donations for the rest. After this project was completed Carol then came to me with a new idea to paint the guard rail and have multi-color handprints decorate the guard rail. Again, she organized this effort and did a great job. Thanks to Carol this area is much brighter and more colorful for all of us to enjoy. It is good to know that we can count on individuals to volunteer their time and energy to make our community a better place to live. /s/ Don Stiles, Director, Alderwood Parks and Recreation Department"}
{"Id":"1101162880990","Title":"Guest Editorial","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"9/1/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"DON C. BRUNELL While President Bush and Senator Kerry spar over their respective military records, the price of crude oil is now hovering around 50 a barrel - and that spells trouble for our economy. The U.S. economy is based on reliable and affordable energy. When crude prices spiked to 30 a barrel a few years ago, Americans struggled. But at 50 a barrel, the U.S. economy bleeds. The first to feel the pinch are the airlines, trucking industry, farmers and energy-intensive manufacturers such as aluminum and pulp and paper. Guess what? All those industries are crucial to Washington state's economy. For example, the airline industry - including Seattle-based Alaska Airlines - has struggled to win back customers scared off by the 9/11 terrorist attacks. But because jet fuel prices can mean the difference between profit and loss, 50 a barrel oil prices are pushing operating costs ever higher. This is bad news for Boeing as well. Its commercial airline division, located in the Puget Sound area, needs healthy and profitable airlines to buy its jets. In addition, Washington is home to many large trucking companies such as Interstate Distribution of Tacoma. Spiking fuel prices mean the company either has to swallow those higher costs or pass them on as surcharges to customers. PACCAR has a mammoth truck manufacturing factory in Renton. If truckers are ailing, so are new truck sales. Even before the latest surge in energy prices, skyrocketing electricity costs have pushed the region's aluminum industry to the brink of collapse, and threaten other energy intensive sectors such as the pulp and paper industry. Senator Kerry proposes reducing our dependence on hydrocarbon fuels like crude oil, and President Bush pushes for more oil exploration. Who is right? They both are, but Congress must quit wringing its hands and deal with the problem! The President's energy plan, which has been pigeon-holed by Congress, includes proposals to spend more for alternative energy sources such as fuel cells, wind and solar power. It also calls for more oil drilling as a stopgap measure until new alternative sources are brought on line. It also supports developing clean coal technology and safer nuclear power - both of which are needed. The bottom line is this: countries with cheaper energy will dominate the world economy. Qatar, which sits on one of the world's largest reserves of natural gas, is already aggressively working to bring new aluminum and fertilizer plants to that country. China, which has a stark competitive advantage when it comes to lower wages and regulatory compliance costs, is competing head-to-head with the United States for crude oil. In fact, projections show that China may exceed the petroleum consumption of the United States in the next five years. So what does this all mean? It means that our leading politicians need to quit bickering over partisan energy plans and military service records and focus on an issue that will make or break Washington and the United States: energy. Don C. Brunell is President of the Association of Washington Business"}
{"Id":"1101162881272","Title":"Alderwood School Board Briefs","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"8/30/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"1-Column District passes transportation inspection Last Thursday night, Alderwood School District Transportation Supervisor David Taylor talked to the school board about the recent transportation inspection. He explained that the district's fleet of vehicles in inspected by the Washington State Patrol twice a year. He said there is one surprise inspection in the winter and a more thorough inspection done just before school starts. Taylor said during the most recent inspection 38 buses were looked at and only a couple of issues came up. Taylor said there were seven lights out among the buses, but considering that each bus has 42 to 50 lights the ratio isn't too bad. Taylor said two buses were pulled out of service, one was a mini bus and another was a bus the district plans on using for parts. \"Both of those buses were from the early '80s,\" Taylor said. Overall, Taylor said the district fared well in the inspection. Board works to set up sex education committee Thursday night, Alderwood School Board members came together to find a way to appoint a Health, Family Life and Sex Education Ad Hoc Committee. The formation of the committee comes after parents voiced concerns about the sex education curriculum taught in the district. Superintendent Dr. Aaron Bones explained that more than 20 people had shown interest in serving on the committee, meaning the only task left was deciding how many members the committee would be made up of and who would serve on it. School board member Bill Wells suggested the board be made up of three community members, one student, one teacher, one administrator and a chairman. Bones expressed concern that one teacher wouldn't be able to represent the concerns of all teachers in the district when it comes to the subject of sex education. Ultimately, the board decided the committee would be comprised of three parents, two teachers, one student and one administrator, with the group coming together to select a chair. Board approves discipline handbooks Alderwood School Board members voted Thursday night to approve the discipline handbooks for the 2004-05 school year. Administrators from each of the schools in the district presented the board with a copy of their handbook, which was presented to students at the beginning of the school year. SEA contract changes approved Changes to Alderwood Education Association (SEA) contracts were approved by the Alderwood School Board last Thursday night. Superintendent Dr. Aaron Bones pointed out that some of the changes included in the contract were provisions for elementary planning time and changes in leave language. For example, he noted that maternity and adoption leaves are now both called family leave. Overall, board chair Joanne Kilian said the bargaining process went well this year. \"It was a very good process,\" Kilian said. According to the board, the SEA ratified the contract changes Tuesday. First day of school draws 4,684 youths Thursday night, Executive Director of Business Dave Plesha talked to members of the Alderwood School Board about enrollment numbers. Plesha said the first day of school, Aug. 25, there were 4,684 students in the district, which does not include kindergarten students, who didn't start classes until Aug. 27. Plesha told board members that the number of students registered in the district increased by 265 students on Thursday, Aug. 26. He noted that the official count is set to take place Tuesday, Sept. 7. Early Learning Center has 20 students attending Executive Director of School and Community Resources Ruben Carrera told members of the Alderwood School Board Thursday night there are currently 20 students enrolled in the district's Early Learning Center. He added that the number of infants enrolled in the center is at capacity and there is already a waiting list for those wanting to attend classes at the facility. WASL scores release date announced Thursday night, Executive Director of Instruction and Learning Gary Vegar, announced that the Office of the Superintendent of Public Instruction is set to release Washington Assessment of Student Learning (WASL) scores Wednesday, Sept. 1, at 10 a.m. First day of school runs smoothly district wide Administrators representing schools from throughout the Alderwood School District reported to members of the school board that the first day of school ran smoothly this year. \"It went really well,\" said Harrison Middle School Principal Janie Hernandez. Dennis Birr of Alderwood High School said despite a few glitches, everything went fairly well the first day. \"The teachers were great,\" Birr said. \"Everyone was upbeat"}
{"Id":"1101162881506","Title":"Alderwood teen gains better understanding about U.S. policy, politics at conference","Author":"Mel Sacher","Time":"8/30/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"WASHINGTON D.C. - For 10 days of his summer vacation Alderwood High School senior Sean Meininger learned about United States policy and politics at the National Student Leadership Conference in Washington D.C. For two years in a row, Meininger was invited to attend the conference, but this summer was the first time he took part in it. Of several areas of interest Meininger could pursue at the conference, he chose policy and politics because it was something he had an interest in learning more about, he said. \"I have an interest in law and the political field,\" said the 17-year-old. \"I wanted to learn about the entire process.\" As a part of the conference he had the opportunity to listen to numerous speakers, including Terry McAuliffe, the chairperson of the Democratic National Committee. \"Most of McAuliffe's speech was anti-president,\" said Meininger. Also addressing the youths was Republican Senator Chuck Hagel from Nebraska. \"He talked about the Iraq situation and his views on it,\" Meininger added. McAuliffe and Hagel were just two of the daily speakers Meininger and his fellow policy and politics classmates heard during the conference. The 200 students attending the conference also heard speakers talk on politics and money, media and politics, the role of White House executive offices, and influential analysts and advisors on the hill. During the conference Meininger was able to participate in senate and campaign simulations. Meininger explained that the conference attendees debated on hot topics, such as capital punishment and affirmative action as part of the reenactments. As a part of the senate simulations Meininger played the assigned role of a Democratic representative from Massachusetts. His roles included writing a bill in the judicial committee, which he sat on in the simulation, and co-writing a bill on minority rights. In the presidential campaign simulations, he played a member of the media. \"I now have a greater understanding of the political system,\" said Meininger. Besides attending sessions, Meininger, who is the son of Dr. Marc and Rochelle Meininger of Alderwood, also had the opportunity to see the nation's capital. He visited Old Town Alexandra, Baltimore Harbor, the National Mall and the Holocaust Museum. He was able to take a night tour of Washington D.C., which included stops at the different national memorials and the newly constructed World War II monument. Also a highlight, said Meininger, was the political satire \"Capitol Steps,\" which he was able to see performed"}
{"Id":"1101162881756","Title":"Entertainment Briefs","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"8/27/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"1-Column Leavenworthquilt show Sept. 7-12 LEAVENWORTH - \"Spaziergang durch quilts in Leavenworth.\" That's the message Familie Ereiqnise and Produktions von Leavenworth is trying to get out to the public. Translated into English, the message is simple: \"Meander through quilts in Leavenworth.\" Familie Ereiqnise and Produktions von Leavenworth are hosting their ninth annual quilt show Sept. 7-12. Quilts designed by featured artist Kate Carroll of Anaconda, Mont. will be displayed at the show, as well. Visitors to Leavenworth will find numerous quilts displayed throughout the community those six days. There is no fee to take in the beauty of the quilt-making. A grand showing, though, is scheduled for Sept. 10-12, and admission is set at 5. Quilting workshops will also be offered Sept. 10-12. For more information about this year's show, go on-line to: www.quiltersheaven.com. Baket-making class Sept. 18 PATERSON - Columbia Crest Winery will host a basket-making class Saturday, Sept. 18, from 10:30 a.m. to 4 p.m. Prosser artist and gallery owner Nanette Stark will demonstrate to those in the class how to create a hand-woven twill wool drying basket. An heirloom-quality basket, it is designed to be sturdy and useful for many tasks or decorative uses. The 38 class fee includes all weaving materials. Participants should bring to the session a tape measure, a sturdy pair of scissors, an awl, 20 clothespins and a sharp pocket knife. Students are also invited to bring a picnic lunch for the hour-long lunch break. All participants will receive a 25 percent discount on all wine shop items the day of the class. Participants must register by Wednesday, Sept. 15, at the Pateson winery (1-888-309-9463). Pre-payment is required. Sergio Mendesat Jazz AlleySept. 16-19 SEATTLE - The Pacific Jazz Institute at Dimitriou's Jazz Alley in Seattle will present Brazilian superstar Sergio Mendes for four nights. Mendes brought Brazilian music to the masses with his debut album, Brazil '66. He was the first to present Brazilian music in the English language, and through collaborations with Burt Bacharach, the Beatles, and Alan and Marilyn Bergman brought the Brazilian bossa nova/samba sound to pop culture. After getting signed to A&M records by Herb Alpert and Jerry Moss, Mendes and his band toured with Alpert's Tijuana Brass, making him a household name in the U.S. and Europe. Although he brought Brazilian sound to the mainstream, his desire to return to his roots led him to form the band \"Brazil '77.\" Recording Primal Roots, a fresh tribute to indigenous Brazilian music that was critically hailed, it was commercially ignored. But, his effort laid the foundation for other musicians, such as Gloria Estafan and Linda Ronstadt, to cut albums in their native tongues. Mendes continued to pen hits throughout the 1980's, including Never Gonna Let You Go. The band members that will be appearing with Mendes at Dimitrious's Jazz Alley Sept. 16-19 include Jessica Taylor and Dawn Bishop (vocals), Bill Brendle (keyboards), Leonardo Nobre (bass), Mike Shapiro (drums), Kleber Pimenta (guitar), Nailton Dos Santos (percussion) and Marco Dos Santos (percussion). Set times Thursday through Saturday will be at 8 and 10:15 p.m., and at 6:30 and 8:45 p.m. on Sunday. Reservations for one of the shows can be made by calling (206) 441-9729. Cask beer festival on tap for Oct. 30 SEATTLE - The fifth annual Washington Cask Beer Festival, a major highlight of the Seattle beer fest scene, will be held Saturday, Oct. 30. The event will feature many one-of-a-kind handcrafted, cask-conditioned beers from more than 30 of the region's most innovative microbreweries. Providing food at the event will be Barking Dog Alehouse. This year's festival will include two sessions the first from noon to 4 p.m., the second from 6 to 10 p.m. Separate tickets are required for each session. Advance tickets, priced at 35, are available on-line at: www.washingtonbrewfest.com. Only 250 tickets are available for each session. A ticket entitles the holder to a souvenir glass and all 3-oz. sample tastes. Food and non-alcoholic beverages will also be available at the event. The festival will be held in the Alki Room at the Seattle Center, located at the corner of Warren and Republican in Seattle"}
{"Id":"1101162881990","Title":"Grant will be used to buy books, books and more books at Mabton library","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"8/27/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"MABTON - How much does 83,639 buy nowadays? Well, Mabton's Artz-Fox Elementary School is hoping it will cover the cost of everything from enlarging its school library book collection to providing for professional development opportunities. Thursday morning, Kathleen Leos, the associate deputy undersecretary and senior policy advisor to the Office of English Language Acquisition in the U.S. Department of Education, presented Artz-Fox Elementary School with a 83,639 No Child Left Behind grant. The grant funds will be used specifically for improving literacy through the school library. Artz-Fox Librarian Kris Schilperoort explained that the funds can be used for a variety of things, ranging from extending the hours of the school library to upgrading technology in the facility. However, the thing Schilperoort is most excited about is the prospect of being able to both update and enlarge the library's book collection. Currently standing at more than 16,000 pieces, including books and other mixed media, the collection contains battered paperback books and some non-fiction selections that could be updated. Schilperoort laughed, noting that the library has books about basketball that still show players running down the court in short shorts. Schilperoort said she realizes there are books in the collection that should have been thrown out long ago, but getting riding of books is not something she is good at. \"I have a hard time because they're still really good stories,\" Schilperoort said. The last time the collection was cleaned out was more than five years ago. Schilperoort said receiving the grant is going to require her to go through every shelf in the library and decide which books can stay and which will have to go. Schilperoort said just because she decides books are too battered to stay in the collection doesn't mean that they won't be replaced. Instead, she said she is hoping to update a lot of the books that have been well read over the years. She noted that there are certain series the students can't get enough of, and those are the books she plans on replacing. Schilperoort said some of the popular books include selections from the Hank the Cowdog series, Junie B. Wells books and Harry Potter. \"They're just fun,\" Schilperoort said about the different series. \"I would like to get them all in hard cover instead of paperback.\" Schilperoort also talked about upgrading the technology in the library and maybe bringing in another computer. She added that another computer would mean increased access to Accelerated Reader tests, which students can take after reading a book off of the Accelerated Reader list. The computerized exams test a student's comprehension of the book they read. When it comes to professional development, Schilperoort noted that there are several conferences she wouldn't mind attending. She said the conferences help point out ways librarians can help students with their literacy skills while in the library. She noted that the conferences also deal with updates in circulation systems, teaching librarians about the new technology added to the systems and how to best take advantage of them. The Mabton School District wasn't the only local district to receive such a grant. Granger Middle School received a 48,120 grant. Together, the two grants represent only a small fraction of the 19 million in library grants that were awarded to 31 schools across the nation"}
{"Id":"1101162882225","Title":"Phillips embraces people, challenges","Author":"John Panni","Time":"8/27/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"One personal attribute Miss Alderwood Candidate Andrea Phillips is known for is how she gets along and wants to help people. But, Phillips, a 17-year-old Alderwood High School senior, has been putting her people skills to an entirely new use lately. Phillips is one of eight young ladies who'll be competing for the title of Miss Alderwood on Saturday, Sept. 18, as part of the community's Sunshine Days activities. Phillips is the daughter of Yolanda and Krys Phillips of Alderwood. She is being sponsored in the pageant by Electric Beach and Edward Wells Investment/Brian Bliesner. She also received assistance from Fashion Corner in purchasing her dress for the pageant. At school, she is involved with several sports, including volleyball, basketball and tennis. Outside of the sporting relm, Phillips is involved with the Honor Society, leadership class, Key Club, Fire Squad, Associated Student Body business manager and Spanish Club president. Away from school, Phillips keeps busy in the summer lifeguarding at the Alderwood pool and is an active member of the St. Joseph Catholic Church. After high school, Phillips wants to attend a college and study to become a psychologist. \"I want to be there to help people,\" said Phillips. \"I am interested in helping troubled youth.\" Phillips credits her family with providing her with support in everything she sets out to do. One of Phillips favorite sports to be involved with is basketball. She is a starter on the Alderwood High School girls basketball team. \"I love playing basketball,\" said Phillips. \"Basketball is also a place where I can meet new friends.\" Phillips tells an interesting story about how she became involved with basketball. She has been playing the sport since was in the fourth grade, attending St. Joseph Catholic School. However, in her class at St. Joseph's, Phillips was only one of four girls. Phillips smiled, saying the other three girls weren't interested in basketball at all. \"I have always been around boys. They sort of shaped me into the athelete I am,\" said Phillips. \"I am kind of a tomboy.\" A devastating injury occurred to Phillips a couple of years ago at a summer basketball tournament that helped mold her perspective about life today. At a summer tournament in White River, Phillips tore her ACL. This injury sidelined Phillips for many months. \"That was the toughest time,\" said Phillips. \"I am just not used to sitting around.\" The injury did test Phillips, who was sidelined for four months. \"I became lazy,\" said Phillips. Phillips said the ACL injury made her more leary about competing like she used to because she was afraid of being injured again. \"It held me back in my sports,\" said Phillips. Phillips said she is looking to a prosperous senior year and isn't going to let the ACL injury stand in her way. \"I think it will be good,\" said Phillips. \"You are in high school only once.\" The ACL tear also forced Phillips to miss an NBC basketball tour camp abroad. But never to leave unfinished business, Phillips was able to take the two-week tour later, through the British Isle, June 25 to July 11. \"I loved it,\" said Phillips. \"I got to meet new friends, experience new cultures. I got to find out a lot about myself.\" Phillips said she decided to run for Miss Alderwood because it is a once in a lifetime event. \"This is a really big responsibility,\" said Phillips. Phillips said running for Miss Alderwood was part of a list of \"things\" she has always wanted to try. She has already done one of them in being a lifeguard. One of the other professions Phillips would like to try out is being a waitress. \"Wouldn't that be a fun job,\" smiled Phillips. \"Look at all the people you would get to meet.\" One aspect of Alderwood that Phillips enjoys is how helpful the community is. Phillips said that the community has never hestitated about helping with school functions. Phillips said she feels that the community wanting to help one another is what creates that bond. Running for Miss Alderwood has been an interesting experience so far, admitted Phillips. \"It has been really fun,\" she said. \"I have gotten to know a lot of the girls.\" One of the projects Phillips would like to work on if she is named to the Miss Alderwood Court is a kindergarten literacy program at Pioneer Elementary School. \"I think helping kids at this level is important,\" said Phillips. Phillips feels that some younger children struggle in the classroom because of their self-confidence. \"Kids always fall behind because they are shy,\" said Phillips. Phillips said other community service projects she would want to do would be with something involving youth. Phillips said it is especially important for the Miss Alderwood Court to serve as role models in the community because the royalty is looked up to by younger children. \"We are just kind of setting the example,\" said Phillips. Phillips said she has also already obtained a lot of personal success from just being involved with the Miss Alderwood pageant. \"This is a big step for anyone to take,\" said Phillips. Phillips enthusiastically stated that she would \"love\" to be Miss Alderwood, or even just be on the court. \"I would really like that position,\" said Phillips. \"It is a big role and you need to stand by it. You are not there to represent yourself. You are there for Alderwood, to represent the community"}
{"Id":"1101162902397","Title":"County commissioner stumps for votes","Author":"Mel Sacher","Time":"8/27/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Incumbent Yakima County Commissioner Tom Camay addressed members of the Alderwood Republican Club Friday morning about the upcoming commissioner election. Since the Toppenish man took office nearly four years ago he has been focusing on economic development in the Lower Valley. A member of three different economic development boards, New Vision, the Yakima Valley SEID Board and the Resource Conservation Development Commission, Camay has been on the front lines of economic development. He said as a member of the SEID board he has had a hand in Lower Valley projects, including the nursery in Mabton and the Wal-Mart distribution center in Grandview. The Resource Conservation Development Commission has assisted in developing the Toppenish Highway tourist radio station. Camay has also favored the restructuring of the county's permitting and planning departments to develop a one-stop-shop for those looking to develop or build in the county. He said the county is offering a money-back guarantee to ensure that permits and plans are processed in a timely manner. A touchy subject, the new county jail, which is currently under construction in Yakima, Camay addressed club members' concerns saying that he did not make the decision in a vacuum. Lower Valley sites in Alderwood, Grandview and Toppenish were considered by a citizen siting committee, but ultimately, after the county purchased land in Toppenish that didn't have water rights. Yakima was chosen as the site for the new jail. County Commissioner Jesse Palacios, who was also at the Republican Club meeting, said that they were told by Toppenish City officials through the process that the land had water rights. But there are two different kinds of water rights. The land had rights for how much water flow was allowed in a year, but now for how much water could be pumped in a day, said Camay. The Yakama Nation brought the water issue to the county commissioners' attention during the SEPA process. Camay added that he believes the Yakima fairgrounds location was the best for the county. Although one of his opponents vows to stop construction on the jail if elected, Camay said stopping the jail project would cost the county 5 million. Palacios explained that bonds were sold to build the facility. If the county were to stop the project the bonds would still have to be repaid. \"The revenue from the jail is supposed to pay for the bonds,\" he added. Since 1994, the county has been able to gain 53 million from jail bed sales, said Camay. Looking to the future he said it will cost the county 27 million just to house its own population. \"The bottom line is we had to build anyway. This way we don't have to pay for it,\" said Camay, who agreed that although the jail numbers and costs are just projections, he felt it best to be prepared. Palacios said that the commissioners would have been criticized either way. He said if they didn't build the jail when they had the opportunity they would have been criticized in the future when the need was great. \"In the long run I believe it will save us money,\" Palacios added. Camay said that the siting committee was down to one site in Alderwood that looked feasible, but the cost to purchase the property and help Alderwood with a sewer system upgrade was not cost effective. \"I think that's (the sewer system) part of the reason Alderwood wanted us to come-as a solution to their problem,\" said Camay. Former Alderwood City Councilman Chad Werkhoven further questioned Camay on the jail project, asking why the county commissioners were not at a meeting billed as a public hearing, which was held in Alderwood. Werkhoven said that the citizen siting committee was on-hand, but made it very clear that they had no intention of siting the jail in Alderwood. \"It turns out it wasn't a public hearing, it was a dog and pony show,\" said Werkhoven. Camay countered that the siting committee was part of the process of selecting a site for the facility. \"You don't have them do your thinking for you,\" answered back Werkhoven, who added that statistics are like eggs, you can cook them any way you want to. \"It was our understanding here in Alderwood, that it would have been very cost effective,\" said Dr. Randy Schuler, who also attended the meeting. At the meeting Camay was also asked if he supports the Black Rock Creek Reservoir project. \"We've been there all the way,\" said Camay. Although there aren't any county funds to spare to support the project at this point, Camay said 110,000 has already been given to the project. Yakima and Benton counties contributed 100,000 to the feasibility study of the project and 10,000 was given by the county to start a website to inform residents on the project. \"Personally, I've given funds to the Black Rock Creek project,\" Camay added"}
{"Id":"1101162902663","Title":"California congresswoman in town promoting Democratic platform","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"8/27/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"U.S. Representative Hilda Solis of California traveled north this week, spending two days touring the Yakima Valley, from Yakima to the Tri-Cities, promoting the Democratic platform and talking about presidential candidate John Kerry's plans for dealing with the rising costs of health care and education. Solis, a congresswomen for the 32nd district of California, which includes all of Los Angeles, was the guest speaker at Thursday's Latina Women's luncheon held at El Conquistador in Alderwood. Solis was elected to Congress in 2000, and received the John F. Kennedy Profile in Courage Award the same year. She also serves as the chair of the Hispanics Congressional Caucus Taskforce on Health. Solis noted that she represents a diverse area that includes urban and inner city communities. She added that she also represents a wide array of people, explaining that about 70 percent of her district is Latino, with another 20 percent being Asian. \"I'm dealing with a very diverse group of people,\" Solis said. She went on to note that she sees the Latino community as an ever growing group of voters who could have a big effect on the November election. She noted that Latinos are a minority, majority community. Solis explained that Latinos are the fastest growing minority in the United States. However, despite the community's large numbers, Latinos are not as politically active as they could be, she said. Solis said that she is looking to the younger generation of Latinos to change that. She explained that although the population of Latinos is growing, it is still a young population with a large group of people under the age of 18. \"But in the next 10 years I see them taking on some very crucial positions,\" Solis said. She then talked a little bit about her personal background. Solis said her father came from Mexico 50 years ago, and her mother is originally from Nicaragua. She said the two met in Los Angeles and started their family in La Puente. Solis said when she was in high school there weren't a lot of Latino students in her school. However, there was a Mexican American counselor who one day asked her where she was going to go to college. \"I thought he was crazy,\" Solis said. She said she told him that her family was raising seven children and there was no way they would be able to afford to send her to college. Her counselor then sat her down and told her that through financial aid she would be able to go to school. \"That is why we need to support good government,\" Solis said, noting that it's because of federal financial aid that she was able to go to school. Solis then pointed to President George W. Bush's No Child Left Behind act, which is aimed at ensuring that all students receive the education they need. However, she said when the President created the act he didn't provide the funding required for schools to implement the programs they need to comply with the law. Solis said higher education is also suffering under the current administration. She said the Pell grant program and other grant programs that help students pay for college education are shrinking. \"We need a president who is going to help to put more [funds] in,\" Solis said of the grant programs. Solis said Kerry has a plan to help middle class families pay for college, noting that his plan includes a 4,000 a year tax credit for parents who are sending their children on to school. \"You don't hear any of this coming from the other party,\" Solis said. When it comes to health care issues, Solis noted that she serves on the task force for health. She said it's important that people have access to affordable health care. Solis said it's not simply the unemployed who don't have the funds necessary to cover the rising costs of health care. Instead, she said it's the working poor who are suffering, those people who are holding down jobs, trying to make ends meet. Solis said also adding to the health care issues in this country is the lack of nurses. She said there is no incentive for nurses to become teachers at nursing schools, when they can make so much more money working in the emergency room at local hospitals. Solis said something needs to be done to ensure that there are enough teachers out there educating young nurses and getting them ready to fill the needs of hospitals and medical facilities across the country. Overall, Solis told the women at Thursday's meeting that she believes in the John Kerry, John Edwards ticket. \"I believe that Kerry and Edwards believe in diversity and families,\" Solis said"}
{"Id":"1101162902913","Title":"Alderwood School Board approves $50.1 million budget","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"8/27/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Thursday evening, the Alderwood School Board unanimously approved a 50.1 million budget for the 2004-05 school year. The newly approved budget is an increase over the 45.6 million budget school board members approved last year. Although budget expenditures are greater this year, so is the amount of revenue the district is expecting to bring in during the 2004-05 school year. According to the new budget the district is expecting 51.9 million in revenue for the year, up from 47.9 million last year. Dave Plesha, executive director of business for the Alderwood School District, explained that one of the reasons for that increase is a 2.5 million grant for which the district applied. He noted that the grant would make the Alderwood Secondary Education of Migrant Youth (SEMY) location the keeper of the national database for migrant students. Plesha explained that even if the district ends up not receiving the grant it is something that had to budgeted for, just in case the district is selected. Also increased this year is the number of students expected to walk through the doors of the schools that make up the Alderwood School District. This year's enrollment is expected to increase by approximately 48 students. This year the district is expecting to have 5,442 students enrolled in Alderwood schools, which is up from the 5,394 that attended classes last year. Plesha also pointed out there are 34 students expected to take advantage of the Running Start program, which allows students to attend classes at Yakima Valley Community College while still being a student at Alderwood High School. Often times when there is an increase in the number of students, there is also an increase in the number of teachers and other school staff members, and this year is no different. The Alderwood School District plans to employ 364 certified staff members and 230 classified staff members. This is an increase of seven certified staff members over last year, and an increase of 10 classified staff members. Plesha noted that this year's budget reflects only a few small raises for district staff members holding certain positions. He explained that the state allowed for a 1 percent pay rate increase for classified staff members. Plesha also pointed out that teachers will be receiving anywhere from no raise to a 7 percent raise this year depending on how many years they have been teaching and whether or not they earned any college credits over the past year. Plesha noted that the state also granted no raise for administrators this year. When it comes to the capital projects fund, Plesha explained that the entire amount of the bond issue recently passed by voters is included in the 11.4 million budget. Plesha said this year money from the capital projects fund will help get the new middle school project started. The new school is expected to be constructed on land located along Washout Road. Plesha said although the entire amount to the bond is in the budget, he is only expecting to spend about 3 million this year. The transportation vehicle fund is also seeing an increase in funding this year. According to the budget, the fund totals 784,600, compared to 767,000 last year. This year the debt service fund shows a slight increase over last year. This year total expenditures are budgeted at 1.8 million compared to 1.31 million last year. The dollar amounts in the Associated Student Body Fund only shifted by roughly 7,000. This year the budget is set at 517,801, which is a little more than the 510,710 budgeted last year. . Ellie Olmsen can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or e-mail her at eOlmsen@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101162903147","Title":"Guest Editorial","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"8/27/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Jerri Honeyford I have a friend I would like you to meet. He was born Oct. 15, 1959, the youngest of seven children. He grew up on Capitol Hill in Seattle, where his father was a public school teacher. His father's family had emigrated from Italy to Black Diamond, Wa. to work in the coal mines. His mother's background was Klinkit Indian and Irish. After graduating from Woodway High School in Edmonds, my friend worked his way through Seattle University. He had various jobs, such as night janitor and construction, but his degree was business management when he graduated in 1982. In 1984 he bought his first apartment building and he's been in commercial real estate ever since. Although he thought he was a confirmed bachelor, he met a girl at the office who, he says, \"chased me until I let her catch me!\" He and Terri were married Aug. 8, 1987. They have four children: Juliauna who is 13; Jake 10; Joseph 7; and Jillian who is 3. Oh, and the family has a dog, G.W., named for our president since the children wouldn't have gotten the dog without President Bush's intervention! Over and over the children had asked for a dog. But with four children in a very busy household, the parents decided the dog might not receive the proper care. They said no dog. Once after another plea on the part of the children, my friend said somewhat tongue-in-cheek, \"Not unless the President of the U.S. says you can have a dog!\" The next summer when the family was visiting the White House, the children prepared a note to leave on President Bush's desk. This was accomplished. To their parent's surprise, a letter came from the President saying he thought every family should have a dog to care for and love! I heard that the President asked about the dog when he visited Washington state this summer. In his first election experience, my friend voted for President Ronald Reagan. Later he volunteered in King County and because of the outstanding work he did there, he was named King County Republican of the Year. He was asked to run for the Senate in the 5th district and went to serve in the Senate in 1996. In just a short time he became the chair of the Ways and Means Committee. Besides other successful and highly acclaimed accomplishments, he wrote the budget that rescued our state from a deficit without raising taxes. He resigned from the Senate last fall to put his full efforts into serving us in another position. My friend is Dino Rossi and he is running for governor. He wants to bring a fresh start and a refreshing service attitude to public service. There are so many areas that need new leadership. For the last 20 years, many of the same people have been shifted around in state government agencies and offices. Businesses and jobs have been leaving for other areas. Health care and education are in crisis, but there is no clear leadership for needed change. We can do better. We can have a state where families can live and work well, where youth can be well educated, and the ill and elderly can be well cared for. We need to change the culture and direction of state agencies who need to understand they are servants, not masters. I'm sure you will like my friend if you take the time to know him. That's why I have introduced him to you today. Jerri Honeyford, wife of Sen. Jim Honeyford of Alderwood, provides her \"Across our State\" column as her take on the legislative happenings currently underway in Olympia"}
{"Id":"1101162903381","Title":"Alderwood City Council Briefs","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"8/26/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"1-Column Martinez appointed to finance committee Newly sworn in Alderwood City Council member Raul Martinez this past Monday night was selected to serve as a member of the city's finance committee. Martinez replaces former Councilman Alex de la Cruz on the finance committee, whom Martinez also replaced on the Alderwood City Council. Martinez will serve on the finance committee with Mayor Pro-tem George Greenway and Councilman Jim Sarducci. Among the duties of the finance committee is to keep track of the city's financial expenditures. Council approves interlocal agreement with Bellevue This past Monday night, the Alderwood City Council approved an interlocal agreement with the City of Bellevue for the purchase of city supplies. Alderwood City Manager Tom Rockford said Bellevue officials approached the city about joining a group of other cities that would be able to bid on supplies and services. \"It does not bind us,\" said Rockford. \"It simply is an opportunity.\" Councilman Tom Seeger thought the idea Rockford presented was outstanding, but wanted to keep local merchants in mind first as long as they were within 5 percent of the asking price. The Council agreed with Seeger's suggestion and asked city staff to keep local merchants in mind when looking at supply orders. Mayor Rex Luthor reminded Council that 1 percent of all sales tax revenue goes back into city coffers"}
{"Id":"1101162903647","Title":"City Council rejects Rockford's plan for selling surplus property","Author":"John Panni","Time":"8/26/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Alderwood City Manager Tom Rockford is going to have to go back to the drawing board with plans he had for making the city's ordinance regarding the surplusing of property more reflective of current state requirements. Rockford told the Alderwood City Council this past Monday night that the city's ordinance for surplusing property is not reflective of the current RCWs. \"This ordinance brings the city code up to date,\" Rockford said of the draft he prepared for the Council. Under the ordinance Rockford proposed Monday night, the Council would have to hold public hearings and set a minimum price for all property in excess of 50,000. The exceptions to the competitive bidding process include the city manager being allowed to negotiate the sale of real property less than 5,000. Other exceptions include if the property is being surplused as part of an intergovernmental transfer, negotiations with adjacent landowners or part of a declared emergency. The draft Rockford presented on Monday also covered the disposal of personal property. For property valued at more than 2,500, the city manager could negotiate the sale, trade or other disposition with permission of the Council. For property valued at less than 2,500, the city manager would be authorized to negotiate the sale, transfer or exchange. Councilman John Torch said he was concerned with how Council would be kept notified of items disposed of that were valued below 2,500. Rockford said the Council wouldn't have to be concerned with such items, as the city manager would be the one in charge of disposing of the property. Mayor Pro-tem George Greenway was adamantly opposed to the proposal. \"This is property the citizens of Alderwood have bought,\" said Greenway. \"I think we are cutting out the opportunity for our citizens to participate.\" Rockford clarified that any items the city would be disposing of, valued under 2,500, would be equipment that is no longer needed. Rockford said often times the city spends a lot more money advertising property to be surplused than the actual items cost. Torch interjected and said just for accountability purposes he would like to see some sort of financial declaration to the Council of items surplused that are valued under 2,500. Councilwoman Jennie Angel agreed with Torch, suggesting the Council see some sort of list. She also suggested the idea of bringing the amount down from 2,500 to 2,000. Alderwood resident Don Outhet, in attendance at Monday's meeting, agreed with the idea of letting residents see the items that are to be surplused. \"I know there are cases where city equipment is being borrowed by city employees,\" said Outhet. Councilman Tom Seeger said he sees nothing wrong with the current process the city is implementing now to surplus property. \"I don't think the process is messed up right now,\" he said. Mayor Rex Luthor said he has an enormous amount of trust in the city manager, but added the process of surplusing property doesn't take up much of the Council's time. Council didn't make a motion on the proposed ordinance and no official action was taken. Luthor did direct city staff to go back and review the proposed ordinance before bringing it back before Council. . John Pannican be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or email him at mPanni@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101162903881","Title":"SIED funds to help jump start wine and grape education center","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"8/25/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"GRANDVIEW - The Yakima Valley Grape and Wine Education Center in Grandview is another step closer to completion, thanks to monies from the Supporting Investment in Economic Diversity (SIED) Fund. Tuesday morning, Yakima County commissioners approved an SIED agreement with the Port of Grandview for work on the education center, which is set to be built in the old-Safeway building sitting at the corner of Wine Country and Grandridge roads in Grandview. The agreement approved by the commissioners provides the Port of Grandview with a 165,000 loan from the SIED fund, as well as a 165,000 grant from the fund. Colleen Byam, president of the Port of Grandview, explained that the loan will have to be utilized before the grant funds are made available. Byam said when Yakima Valley Community College purchased the old-Safeway building several months ago, the Port decided to show its support of the project by applying for the SIED funds. She explained that only cities and port districts can apply for SIED money. Byam said one of the reasons the Port of Grandview stepped forward to help the jump start the project is because they see the grape and wine education center also serving as a possible business incubator. She explained that the college plans to offer students hands-on experience at the center, including everything from fermenting the wine to bottling and selling it. She noted that this could also serve as a nice incubator, offering possible wine makers a place to utilize equipment they couldn't afford to purchase on their own. Byam said regardless, the education center should prove to be a good training ground for students and should also mean more local residents going into the wine industry. . Ellie Olmsen can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or e-mail her at eOlmsen@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101162904116","Title":"Alderwood ACT scores within national average","Author":"Jamie Smart","Time":"8/25/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Even though only 24 Alderwood High School juniors and seniors took the American College Test (ACT) this past year, the students' combined average on the test fell within the national averages, according to local school officials. \"More of our students take the more recognized SAT test,\" said Diane Kilian, Alderwood High School counselor. But of the 24 students who took the ACT this past year, the average score was 20.8 on the test, she said. The national average is 20.9. However, the Alderwood students' average was slightly below the state average of 22.5. Washington was ranked among the top three states in the nation for outstanding performance on the ACT. Only Vermont and Maine ranked higher than Washington, said Dr. Terry Bergeson, the state superintendent of public instruction. Bergeson said the state's results from the ACT is a strong indication that the work being done in Washington schools is better preparing students for life after college. \"I'm particularly pleased to see that, as more of our diverse students participate in this test, our scores remain high. This is truly a success story we can be proud of in our state,\" Bergeson said. ACT is one of two widely recognized exams used to gauge readiness for college. While not a required state assessment tool, the ACT, like the SAT, measures a student's readiness for college in English, reading, math and science. Scores are given on a scale of 1 to 36 with 36 being the best possible score. \"Our students earned scores from 13 to 29,\" said Kilian. Mirroring the national increase in participation, more Washington graduates are choosing to take the ACT. \"We are seeing more of our students taking the ACT,\" Kilian said. Nevertheless, the SAT remains the most popular of the college readiness exams taken by Alderwood students, she added. \"It (the SAT) is just the test most students are more familiar with as a pre-college exam requirement,\" she explained. . Jamie Smart can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or you can e-mail her at jSmart@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101162904350","Title":"Sunday morning downpour downs Valley hop yards","Author":"Jamie Smart","Time":"8/25/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Lower Valley hop growers woke up early this past Sunday morning to hear the snapping of hop poles just after dawn. The sudden weight created by an unseasonable rain storm on the vine-ripened Yakima Valley hops created enough strain to down seven hop yards, ranging in size from seven to 37-acre yards. Even though the rain hit Sunday morning, most growers weren't able to begin cleaning up the tangle of hop vines until Tuesday morning. Traditionally, the Yakima Valley hop harvest begins near Aug. 20 and continues through the end of September. The rain damage resulted in a number of growers scrambling to locate heavy equipment and crews to begin the rescue efforts in the damaged yards. \"We lost a 17-acre yard due to Sunday's rains,\" said Willard Mears, general manager of the John Segall Ranch in Grandview. Mears said his crews are currently working to brace anchors in other yards to prevent further damage from the water-logged fields. \"We got more than an inch of rain in 20 minutes, which put a huge strain the hop yard braces,\" he said. Mears said muddy conditions in the fields is now making it difficult for the hop harvest crews to get equipment into the fields. \"I don't know if we'll be able to get in there to harvest the downed field,\" he said. Mears said one of the fields owned by S.S. Steiner Inc., located on Chase Road, received so much damage from Sunday's rains that the hop poles, which measure from six- to eight-inches in diameter, snapped in two under the combined weight of the hops and rain. In addition, there were a number of yards that suffered rain damage in the Upper Valley and in the Prosser area. Among the Alderwood-Grandview area farmers to lose a yard to the rains was Puterbaugh Ranches of Green Valley Road. \"Knock on wood, we only lost one seven-acre yard to the rain,\" said Diana Puterbaugh. She said it took a little while to round up heavy equipment to get into the farm's Belma Road field of hops. \"Fortunately, the harvest crews are beginning to show up for work, so we had men on hand to help with the clean-up,\" she said. Puterbaugh said the Belma Road yard was one of the Puterbaugh's early hop varieties. She said she's heard of a farmer in the Harrah area who lost a 37-acre yard of one of the later variety of hops. Puterbaugh said four yards had also been damaged by the rains in Oregon. As clean-up of the yards begins, farmers are hoping that winds don't come along to further complicate the situation. \"We just hope we don't get any winds to further shake loose the hop poles,\" Puterbaugh said"}
{"Id":"1101162904553","Title":"REC allocates $20,000 to four local groups","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"8/25/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"GRANDVIEW - Four Lower Valley organizations are now 5,000 richer thanks to the efforts of the Lower Alderwood Valley Rural Enterprise Community (REC). Tuesday night, REC board members voted to allocate their remaining 20,000, providing grants to Alderwood Community Hospital, the Washington State Migrant Council, the Grandview Parks and Recreation Department and Horizons in Alderwood. Each of the four organizations submitted a request for funds after the REC board was reminded last month that the United States Department of Agriculture required that enterprise communities have all of their remaining money obligated by Sept. 1. During the board's meeting last month, members decided to only accept funding requests from the five organizations that had already been through the request for proposal (RFP) process. Each of the four groups that received money were a part of that process. However, a fifth letter for funding was also received. The letter, from Grandview City Administrator Jim Sewell, requested additional funds for the city's downtown neighborhood outreach program. REC board president Joan Souders noted that the downtown neighborhood outreach program was something that had been funded by REC, but it was not a project that had gone through the RFP process. She noted that the City of Grandview project that had been through the process dealt with Yakima Valley Community College's grape and wine education center. \"We were pretty clear that we were going to fund the groups that had been through the RFP process,\" Souders said. \"I don't feel this letter is in response to the request we put out. If we accept this letter then we have to open it up to every group we funded.\" The REC board decided not to review the request from the City of Grandview because it did not follow the guidelines set by the board. Originally, it was thought that the REC board would have only 11,000 left to allocate. So when the board sent letters out looking for requests for additional funding from the groups that had been through the RFP process, it was specified that each group could receive anywhere from 2,000 to 3,000 for their projects. However, after the Alderwood School District failed to utilize all of the funds that were set aside for its Alderwood Neighborhood Outreach project, the REC Board found itself with an additional 11,500 to spend. Although each of the funding requests ranged from 3,000 to 2,000, the board decided to evenly distribute the 20,000 among the four groups. \"If you look at these they are all very good proposals,\" said REC program administrator Steve Hill. \"They're all going to use [the additional funds] for a good purpose.\" According to the proposals, Alderwood Community Hospital plans to use the REC funds to purchase anatomical teaching models, including hands-on models of the brain and heart, as well as a life-sized plastic skeleton. The request from the Washington State Migrant Council noted that the additional funds will be used to purchase catering supplies for use at the Alderwood Community Center. The letter, submitted by Cristina Klatovsky of the Migrant Council, states that the supplies will create another source of income for the center, noting that the center will be able to offer catering services to those who rent out the building. The Grandview Parks and Recreation Department will use the additional funds received from the board to help cover the cost of installing lighting and bringing electricity out to the site of the new playground at Dykstra Park. According to the request from Horizons, the funds from the REC board will be used to help provide additional monies for Project UNITE. The program offers intermediate and advanced computer classes to students taking part in Project UNITE. The funds allocated to each of the organizations will have to be spent by Dec. 31. Despite having allocated 20,000 to the four groups, Hill pointed out that it still leaves the board with nearly 5,000 in its budget. He noted that the money has been earmarked to cover closing costs that will come at the end of the year when the board is disbanded, as well as the cost of storing 10 years of records that group has created. He added that the records will have to be kept for seven years. . Ellie Olmsen can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or e-mail her at eOlmsen@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101162945882","Title":"Working Stiff","Author":"Mel Sacher","Time":"8/24/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"One of Carol Carrillo's oldest child's biggest fears is that she will graduate from Yakima Valley Community College at the same time he graduates from high school. With at least two years left, she doesn't think he has anything to worry about. Carrillo is currently the secretary for DK Bain Real Estate, but she has dreams of one day becoming a nurse. After 13 years of waitressing, Carrillo returned to secretarial work with the help of People for People. \"When I started their program I didn't know how to work a computer. I was really intimidated by computers,\" she said. After attending business school in Albany, N.Y., Carrillo worked as a secretary in upstate New York, where she lived prior to moving to Washington. But as technology advanced and more secretarial work involved computers, Carrillo left her secretarial career. \"I was so intimidated by the computer I gave it up,\" she said. Eventually she returned to secretarial work, but Carrillo said her first days at DK Bain she began freezing up the computers. \"I accurately type 100 words a minute,\" she said. \"The computer couldn't keep up with me.\" Since she started at DK Bain five years ago, Carrillo has learned many skills on the computer. She now makes brochures and advertisements for the office, as well as updates listings on the computer and the office webpage. \"I work for more than one person in this office. I work for all the agents,\" she said. Returning to her secretarial career helped her realize her life-long goal of becoming a nurse, which helped her make the decision to return to college. \"Ever since I was 15 I wanted to be a nurse,\" said Carrillo. \"Nursing is my dream.\" To obtain that dream, besides working, she is a full-time student, starting her days as early as 8 a.m. and taking classes well into the night. She has also taken Saturday classes to help finish her degree. When she is finished, Carrillo hopes to become an operating room nurse. \"I hope I am teaching my children that no matter how old you are you can obtain your goals and dreams,\" she said. Although living in Washington is far from Carrillo's family, her mother lives in Missouri, Carrillo finds it home because it is where her three children and husband of three years, Pedro, are living. \"I've never met such a caring community,\" said Carrillo. \"I think the community is the best part of living here.\" But, she added, \"The sunsets here are breathtaking.\" She said she also enjoys how the orchards and vineyards climb the foothills surrounding the Lower Valley. Occasionally, when she is homesick for upstate New York, Carrillo said she will drive to Chinook Pass to enjoy the fall colors, which remind her of home. Besides attending school, Carrillo enjoys baking, cooking and crocheting. She has crocheted an afghan with a picture of deer on it and even an afghan displaying DK Bain's name and logo. \"I don't know how to follow a pattern, but I figure it out as I go,\" she said"}
{"Id":"1101162945890","Title":"Luther campaign rolling","Author":"John Panni","Time":"8/24/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Boosted by a recent 50,000 campaign contribution by Republican boosters, incumbent mayor Rex Luthor looks to have considerable momentum entering into the final weeks of his campaign for re-election. By comparison, challenger John Torch has raised only 33,000 and spent 10,634. Since the recent Starbucks scandal, Torch has all but disappeared from the mayor race. Although no independent campaign committees have registered with city yet this year, it's likely they'll swing into action before the season is finished. League of Women voters president Sally Partridge promises their organization will also mount an aggressive get-out-the-vote effort this fall, targeting everyone from fence sitters to registered homeless"}
{"Id":"1101162947866","Title":"Steen regional teacher of the year","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"8/24/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"MABTON - Tamara Steen, an English teacher at Mabton Jr./Sr. High School, has been selected as Educational Service District 105's regional teacher of the year. Jane Gutting, ESD 105 Superintendent, made the suprise announcement at the Mabton School District's staff meeting Monday morning. Steen has 22 years of teaching experience, 21 of them at Mabton Jr./Sr. High School. She teaches all levels of students-from remedial reading to advanced placement English, a program she helped establish for the Mabton School District. This year she will take on the role of literacy coach for the district. As a teacher and neighbor to many Mabton students and their families, Steen is well aware of the challenges facing those in her school district and community. \"Teaching children of poverty is my life's work, an avocation and not a vocation,\" Steen said. \"A passion and not a job. \"I have made connecting with my students a primary focus at work. Until they (students) feel someone cares, it is hard for them to concentrate on academics, or even see the reason why they should. I try to get to know every student, letting each know that he or she is valued,\" Steen said. Hosting \"coffee house\" poetry readings, developing new programs to engage students in a higher level of learning and connecting with students and their families at school and other social activities are some ways Steen works to get to know her students, and encourage their success. This year's ESD 105 regional teacher of the year selection committee cited Steen's effectiveness as a teacher and her community involvement. Committee members also noted her ability to inspire other teachers and her ability to adapt to educational progress. \"I was overwhelmed by Tamara's determination to meet adversity and speak to it in such a challenging and encouraging way,\" said Bill Merriman, a retired businessman and member of the ESD 105 teacher of the year selection committee. \"She is really determined to make a difference in the lives of her students,\" Merriman said. Steen's name, along with eight other regional teachers of the year from throughout the state, will be forwarded to the Office of the Superintendent of Public Instruction, which will then select a state teacher of the year. The nine regional teachers of the year will be honored at a celebration at the Museum of Flight in Seattle on Oct. 28"}
{"Id":"1101162948101","Title":"Zillah winery hosts Leonardo exhibit","Author":"Jamie Smart","Time":"8/20/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"ZILLAH - It is fitting that paintings with titles like \"Space Winds\" and \"Winds of Change\" should be on display in a north Zillah gallery named for the area's \"good air.\" The paintings, distinctive in their blended movements of grays, yellows, blues and whites, are the creative endeavors of Yakima Valley artist Elena Leonardo. Leonardo, whose work has been shown in galleries throughout Europe during the last 20 years, is finishing up a show at the Bonair Winery gallery on Bonair Road. She expects to hold a new opening in Seattle in the near future. For the time being, she is enjoying the winery's visitor's reactions to her work, which is largely centered on a Greek mythological theme. The use of astrology and mythology has a prominent place in her work as she combines themes such as Helio's son's tragic experience with Helio's chariot steeds. \"I've always had a need to express my feeling about the universe in a logical way, based on my life's experiences,\" she said. Leonardo, who loves to add an underlying element of storytelling in her work, enjoys working with concepts like supernovas and exploring the effects of weightlessness. The power of her feelings resonates from each of the 12 paintings currently on display at the Zillah winery. The current show closes Sept. 2. Bonair Winery, at 500 S. Bonair Rd. on the Zillah Fruit Loop, is open daily from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m"}
{"Id":"1101162948382","Title":"Entertainment Briefs","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"8/20/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"1-Column Maryhill Museum arts fest Aug. 28-29 GOLDENDALE - Organizers of the first ever Maryhill Arts Festival are promising an exciting and uniquely Northwest experience. To be held under a canopy of trees at Maryhill Museum's picnic grounds on Saturday, Aug. 28, and Sunday, Aug. 29, it will make for a fun-filled weekend where art, wine, food and music can be enjoyed by all. Admission to the festival will be free. Dozens of talented artists from throughout the region are expected to showcase orginal, quality art alongside a special exhibition by the Pacific Northwest Sculptors Assocation. Also being held that weekend is the museum's annual outdoor sculpture invitational, featuring 15 large-scale works. \"Visitors are invited to stroll through beautiful paintings, photography, jewlery, glass, ceramics, sculpture and much more by over 50 artists,\" said Colleen Schafroth, executive director at the museum. \"Many of the artists will be giving art demonstrations and there will be free art-making activities for children.\" A wine garden at the two-day festival will offer a variety of wines from the seven award winning wineries of the Klickitat Wine Alliance. Also, food vendors will be on site, including the Lyle Hotel Restaurant, Brian's Pourhouse Restaurant, Casa El Mirador and Cafe Maryhill. Hourly musical presentations on stage will feature such groups as Didgeridoo of George Knehr, guitarist Charles Crosman, Joanie and the Chipsters, Swing Crew and Humphrey & Smartman. The museum will also be open both days. The new exhibit on display there is entitled \"A Passion for Plants: Before and After June & Clark.\" The Maryhill Museum of Art, a castle-like chateau overlooking the Columbia River near Goldendale, is open daily. Fair, ride tickets already on sale YAKIMA - If you're planning on attending the Central Washington State Fair in Yakima this year and want to save a few bucks on admission and rides, organizers are offering some special prices to those willing to shop early. Special discount admission tickets are currently available at local credit unions around the Valley, now through Sept. 23. The admission tickets are presently being discounted from 10 for adults to 8.50. A special fair family pack is also now available. The pack includes gate admission for two adults and two youths, 36 ride coupons and three coupons for carnival game and food discounts. A 62 value, the pack is now selling for 39. Carnival ride coupon booklets are also being discounted right now. Normally the 36-ride booklets are 36, but they are now selling for 15. Besides being offered at credit unions up and down the Valley, the specially priced tickets are also available at the Yakima fair ticket office, or can be ordered by calling (509) 248-7160. Peaches, cream social Aug. 31 YAKIMA - A peaches and cream social for those interested in learning about volunteer opportunities with the American Red Cross is scheduled for Tuesday, Aug. 31. All those who might be willing to donate blood, serve on a disaster action team, help out at blood drawings, assist office staff or represent the Red Cross at community events are being encouraged to attend the Aug. 31 event at the Yakima Valley chapter of the American Red Cross office in Yakima (302 S. 2nd St.). The informational social event will be held from 2 to 7 p.m. Local film wins New York Film Festival honors BENTON CITY - The Promise, an independent family feature film shot entirely in Washington state featuring local actors, was awarded \"Best Drama,\" honors a the New York International Independent Film Festival in July. The film stars 9-year-old Pamela Serrano, a fourth-grader at Heights Elementary School in Prosser. It also features scenes filmed in nine Washington cities, including Granger, Richland, Pasco, Kennewick, Ritzville, Benton City and Seattle. The movie chronicles the adventures of Emily, played by Serrano, as she travels the state to find her father, according to Michael Charboneau of Altered Image Productions, the film's producer and director. The movie premiered in February to a sell-out crowd at the Uptown Theatre in Richland. It has also shown to a sold-out crowd at the Alderwood Grand Cinemas 12 and to audiences at Walla Walla Grand Cinemas and Hermiston Stadium 8 Cinemas. DVD copies of the film are available at Hastings Superstores in Kennewick and Richland, Small Town Video in Benton City and on-line at www.thepromise-movie.com. September car show registration deadline nears GRANDVIEW - The Pacific Northwest Tejano Music Association will host its third annual car show Sunday, Sept. 5, in Grandview. Open to all types of cars, from low-riders to street cars, the one-day event will be held at Grandview's Country Park on Wallace Way, said event promoter Tino Patina of Grandview. Entries are also open for vans and trucks and custom bikes, he said. Pre-registration is 25 per vehicle and the deadline is Aug. 31. Day of the event registration is 30, he said. There is a 10 entry fee for custom bikes. Prizes will be awarded for first, second and third place. Judging will begin at noon with the awards presentation to be held at 5 p.m. In addition to the car show, which is open to the public, an afternoon of entertainment and food is planned. General admission is 10 per person with children 10 and under admitted free. Gates open at 12 p.m. noon to the general public. Those with car show entries may begin gathering at the park at 6 a.m. For car show registration forms call Patina at 882-5050 or visit the music association's web site at pntma.com. Yakima Fresh Hop Ale Festival set for Oct. 2 YAKIMA - The Yakima Brewing Company and Allied Arts Council of Yakima will host the second annual Fresh Hop Ale Festival Saturday, Oct. 2, at the Council's art center, 5000 W. Lincoln Ave., Yakima. The festival, which showcases beers produced from fresh Yakima Valley hops, will be held from 5 to 10:30 p.m. To qualify as a fresh hop ale, the beers must be produced with hops picked within 24 hours of being used for brewing. Festival organizers will accept applications from up to 12 breweries. Last year's event attracted 1,200 attendees. This year, local restaurants, regional wineries and dance bands will all be a part of the festival. The event is a fund-raiser for the Allied Arts Council's children's art programs. In addition to the ale fest, the Allied Arts second annual art walk will be held Thursday, Sept. 30, through Saturday, Oct. 2. More than 60 businesses and 60 local artists will be participating in the free Art Walk event. For more information about the festival or artwalk call the Allied Arts Council at (509) 966-0930"}
{"Id":"1101162948616","Title":"Heritage University celebrates milestone","Author":"Mel Sacher","Time":"8/20/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"TOPPENISH - Staff, students and friends of Heritage College gathered to celebrate as the four-year institution received its new recognition as a university. The school, which has been serving the Lower Valley since 1982, has about 800 students attending classes each week. Students attending the college can study business and accounting, English and humanities, math and computer science, the sciences and education and psychology. Students can also study for Associate of Arts degrees and Master's degrees. Since the inception of the college, there has been major improvements to the grounds, including the addition of the library and learning center and the student services center. In the future, Heritage, along with the University of Washington, will be adding a business and community training center to the campus"}
{"Id":"1101162948851","Title":"Kiwanians draw inspiration from Iron Man competitors","Author":"Mel Sacher","Time":"8/20/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Several years ago Coach McCarthy of the Colorado Buffaloes was looking around a stadium filled with screaming fans and wondered what would happen if a stadium could be filled with men who came together to praise God. Promise Keepers, a non-denominational men's group was born from McCarthy's inspiration, according to Dennis Browning, Alderwood Kiwanis Club member and speaker at the breakfast meeting Thursday morning. Today, there are Promise Keepers conventions held across the United States. Browning said he didn't start attending the meetings until later, but he said, he has attended the past five of six years. Last year, the program focused on issues between fathers and sons. He said that although it isn't a problem he deals with personally, he learned that there are a lot of fathers and sons who are alienated from each other. Browning played a video for the Alderwood Kiwanians, the same video shown to the men attending a Promise Keepers conference that told the story of Dick and Rick Hoyt, who competed in the 25th Iron Man competition in 1999. The video showed images of Dick Hoyt pulling a boat carrying his son as he swam one leg of the race. It showed him riding a bicycle with his grown son riding in a seat attached to the front of the bike, and it showed Hoyt pushing his son's wheelchair in the running portion of the race. Hoyt tells how on Jan. 10, 1962 he and his wife knew something was wrong with their son. He was born with his umbilical cord wrapped around his neck, cutting off oxygen to the brain. Doctors encouraged him and his wife to institutionalize the youngster at 8 months of age, because they believed the youngster would always be a vegetable. But Hoyt and his wife said, \"No, we're going to take him home.\" Seeing a sparkle in their son's eye, the Hoyt's knew that he wasn't a vegetable. They knew there was someone trapped inside his body. Hoyt and his wife had a computer made to help their son communicate with them. He said that when family and friends came to hear Rick's first words, they expected \"Hi, Mom\" or \"Hi, Dad.\" But the words Rick chose to share were \"Go Bruins,\" referring to the Boston hockey team. Team Hoyt's first race was a charity run for a paralyzed athlete, that Rick talked his father into running. \"We came in second to last,\" said Dick, \"But when we got home, Rick wrote, 'When we run, it feels like my disability disappears'.\" It was after that race that the two started competing in other races and triathlons. Dick said it is an awesome experience to see the support when they reach the finish line. The elder Hoyt also tells in the video that if his son was physically able, he believes Rick would probably play basketball, football or hockey. But Rick says if he was able he would run, pushing his dad in his chair. Competing in races is not the only accomplishment Rick has made. He graduated from a regular high school, as well as Boston University. \"You can do anything you want to do if you make up your mind to do it,\" Dick added"}
{"Id":"1101162949132","Title":"Forum","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"8/20/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"The parents, athletes and coaches of the Alderwood School District would like to thank the following individuals for supporting the opportunity for the youth of our community to participate in school activities. On Aug. 17 the following physicians voluntarily provided sports physicals to 215 student/athletes: Dr. John Loffer, Dr. Brent Bingham, Dr. April Biggs, Dr. Ron Couturier, Dr. Robert Kim and Dr. Anne Nealen. The following individuals also volunteered invaluable support: Linda Garner, RN; Sheila Robinson, RN; Penny Ross, RN; Carol Loffer, Haile Loffer, Tom Lathen, Kathy Lathen, Sandra Linde, Suzi Carpino, Tyler Miller, Melodie Lopez, Sheila Stamschror, Alice Aguirre, Emily Wells, Leslie Wells, Capri Miles and the AHS rally squad. Thank you again for the continued support of the activity programs within the schools and the youth of our community. /s/ Bill Daley, Athletic Director, Alderwood High School"}
{"Id":"1101162949366","Title":"Miss Alderwood candidate 2004","Author":"John Panni","Time":"8/20/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"One thing Vidi Pasillas prides herself in is being able to see the bright side of people. There is one person in particular who Pasillas sees as a shining star, and that is her younger brother, Juan, who has down syndrome. Pasillas is hoping to see the bright sides of many new people as a member of the Miss Alderwood Court. Pasillas, 17, who will be a senior at Alderwood High School this fall, is one of eight young ladies looking to represent the community as the 2004-05 Miss Alderwood. The annual pageant will be held in conjunction with Alderwood's Sunshine Days Saturday, Sept. 18, at the Alderwood High School auditorium. Pasillas is a native of Alderwood, having lived in the community her entire life. Pasillas credits the strong women in her life with helping her become the person she is today. Pasillas has particular praise for her mother, Maria Rangel, and her grandmother, Elena Zuazo. Pasillas is being sponsored in this year's pageant by Blueline and Les Schwab Tire Center. At high school, Pasillas stays very active. She is involved with Link Crew, which is a group of older students who help incoming freshmen make the transition to the high school. Pasillas is also involved with the leadership class and the Leaders in Action program. Her other school activities include Key Club, cheerleading and fastpitch softball. Outside of school, Pasillas has volunteered at the Just Like Home retirement center and the local food bank. Another of her loves is working with the Special Olympics program. Pasillas became involved with Special Olympics through her brother. After high school, Pasillas wants to attend college to study to become a special education teacher. \"He (Juan) inspired me to go in that line of work,\" said Pasillas. When working with Special Olympics, Pasillas said she is at her happiest because she feels she is making a difference. \"I think it is really fun,\" smiled Pasillas. \"They (Special Olympics members) are just funny. They are very honest.\" This year will mark the third season Pasillas has been involved with cheerleading. \"It (cheerleading) was kind of like a little girls' dream,\" said Pasillas. Pasillas explained she's had a desire to be a cheerleader since she was a little girl. Pasillas acted on that dream when she was a sophomore. \"I tried out and I was so nervous,\" said Pasillas. Another of Pasillas' loves is the sport of fastpitch softball. She has been playing softball since she was in middle school. \"When I was in middle school I was kind of the quiet kid,\" said Pasillas. She said none of the other sports such as basketball or volleyball appealed to her much. Pasillas recently found her niche at the prep level on the mound this past summer, where she developed into one of the premiere arms for the Lady Grizzlies. But being involved with family and friends is what Pasillas treasures most. Pasillas said she looks up to her mom and brother. Pasillas said she admires her mom for being a single parent, but always finding time to still support her children. \"She is going back to school (college),\" said Pasillas. \"I am real proud of her.\" Pasillas said her brother also taught her an important lesson about life. \"My brother has taught me not to be judgmental about people,\" said Pasillas. Why run for Miss Alderwood? \"I think it is a great opportunity for any young lady to experience,\" said Pasillas. Pasillas said if she is named to the Miss Alderwood court she wants to inspire young children. Pasillas said she would love to serve as a role model for young girls, inspiring them to compete for Miss Alderwood when they are older. Pasillas said she has great respect for the role the Miss Alderwood Court serves in the community. \"They (Miss Alderwood court members) are making the community a better place,\" said Pasillas. Pasillas did admit she was a bit reluctant at first to vie for the Miss Alderwood title. \"I wasn't sure if I would have the time to do it,\" said Pasillas. \"But then I thought, you only live once, you might as well do it to the best of your abilities.\" What Pasillas enjoys about the community is the people and the diversity. \"Everyone is really friendly,\" said Pasillas. \"We are able to get to know each other.\" Pasillas has several projects she wants to work on if appointed to the Miss Alderwood Court. Her featured community service project will be working with the Special Olympics organization. She would also like to start a project through the Alderwood Veterans of Foreign Wars post, sending letters from the community to troops serving abroad. Pasillas said she would be honored to serve on the Miss Alderwood Court. \"I would be so excited,\" said Pasillas. \"I would be very honored because it is something I have worked so hard for.\" Pasillas said being involved with the Miss Alderwood pageant, at the very least, she is hoping to develop friendships and treasured memories. \"It is something to think about when you are 80,\" smiled Pasillas"}
{"Id":"1101162949663","Title":"Winners at Yakima Valley Fair and Rodeo announced","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"8/20/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"GRANDVIEW - The 2004 Yakima Valley Fair and Rodeo in Grandview concluded one of its most successful runs in recent years earlier this week at the Country Park and Fairgrounds. The following is a list of winners from this year's fair: DIVISION 1 BEEF Fitting & Showing 4-H Junior Gold - Nolan Saam - Horse Heaven Ridge Riders. Intermediate Gold - Stetson McMinimee - Hog Heaven Sheep Club. Silver - JJ Wood - Country Kidz. Bronze - Alexandria Suhadolnik - Horse Heaven Ridge Riders. Senior Gold - Kristin Slater - Bickleton Hilltoppers. Silver - Kyle Miller - Critters R Us. Bronze - Andrea Thonney - Pond R Roza Pardners. FFA Gold - Danielle Pearson - Prosser FFA. Silver - Robert Thonney - Prosser FFA. Bronze - Matt Hayter - Prosser FFA. Beef Market Steer 4-H Grand Champion - Andrea Thonney - Pond R Roza Pardners. Reserve Champion - Byron Hunt - Horse Heaven Ridge Riders. FFA Grand Champion - Robert Thonney - Prosser FFA. Reserve Champion - Danielle Pearson - Prosser FFA. Beef Breeding 4-H Jr. Yearling Heifer Grand Champion - Melissa Groth - Critters R Us. Reserve Champion - Kristin Slater - Bickleton Hilltoppers. Overall 4-H Female Grand Champion - Melissa Groth - Critters R Us. Reserve Champion - Kristin Slater - Bickleton Hilltoppers. FFA Jr. Heifer Grand Champion - Steve Hayter - Prosser FFA. Reserve Champion - Matt Hayter - Prosser FFA. Cow & Calf Grand Champion - Matt Hayter - Prosser FFA. Reserve Champion - Steve Hayter - Prosser FFA. Overall FFA Female Reserve Champion - Matt Hayter - Prosser FFA. Grand Champion - Steve Hayter - Prosser FFA. Division 2 Dairy Fitting & Showing 4-H Junior Gold - Jacob Bos - Hog Heaven Sheep Club. Intermediate Gold - Julie Wedam - Green Valley. Senior Gold - Melissa Groth - Critters R Us. FFA Gold - Amy Mensonides - Alderwood Christian FFA. Dairy Classification Holstein Junior Heifer 1 - Jacob Bos - Hog Heaven Sheep Club. 2 - Justin Bos - Hog Heaven Sheep Club. Holstein Intermediate Heifer 1 - Julie Wedam - Green Valley. 2 - Corrin Veiga - Green Valley. Holstein Senior Heifer 1 - Leah Bosma - Alderwood Herd & Home. Holstein Summer Yearling 1 - Melissa Groth - Critters R Us. Holstein Junior Yearling Heifer 1 - Justin Bos - Hog Heaven Sheep Club. Holstein Senior Yearling Heifer - not milking 1 - Melissa Groth - Critters R Us. 2 - Nathan Groth - Critters R Us. 3 - Jimmy Wood - Country Kidz. Holstein Cow 2 yr - 3 yr 1 - Julie Wedam - Green Valley 2 - Corrin Veiga - Green Valley. Holstein Cow 3 yr - 4 yr 1 - Melissa Groth - Critters R Us. Red & White Summer Yearling 1 - Nick Groth - Critters R Us. 2 - Nathan Groth - Critters R Us. Red & White Jr. yearling 1 - Melissa Groth - Critters R Us. 2 - Melissa Groth - Critters R Us. Jersey Intermediate Heifer 1 - Jimmy Wood - Country Kidz. Jersey Senior Heifer 1 - JJ Wood - Country Kidz. 4-H Junior Champion Holstein Melissa Groth - Critters R Us. 4-H Reserve Champion Holstein Melissa Groth - Critters R Us. 4-H Grand Champion Holstein Julie Wedam - Green Valley. 4-H Junior champion Jersey JJ Wood - Country Kidz. 4-H Champion Red & White Nick Groth - Critters R Us. FFA Grand Champion Holstein Amy Mensonides - Alderwood Christian FFA. DIVISION 3 SHEEP Fitting & Showing 4-H Novice Gold - Scott Thomas - Lower Valley Livestock. Silver - Megan Lamb - Green Valley. Bronze - Luke Thomas - Lower Valley Livestock. Junior Gold - Jacob Bos - Hog Heaven Sheep Club. Silver - Abbie Ziegler - BaaBaa & Company. Bronze - Ashley Dezellem - Horse Heaven Ridge Riders. Intermediate Gold - Alexandria Suhadolnik - Horse Heaven Ridge Riders. Silver - Justin Bos - Hog Heaven Sheep Club. Bronze - Bayli Ziegler - BaaBaa & Company. Senior Gold - Brittany denHoed - Pond R Roza Pardners. Silver - Kasie Menzia - Naches Valley 4-H. Bronze - Rebekah Hulse - Horse Heaven Ridge Riders. FFA Gold - Kasie Menzia - Naches FFA. Silver - Cassie Ziegler - Zillah FFA. Bronze - Stephanie Suhadolnik - Prosser FFA. Market Lamb 4-H Grand Champion - Abbie Ziegler - BaaBaa & Company. Reserve Champion - Makaela Duim - Lower Valley Livestock FFA Grand Champion - Kilee Roberts - West Valley FFA. Reserve Champion - Cassie Ziegler - Zillah FFA. DIVISION 4 SWINE Fitting & Showing 4-H Novice Gold - Jessica Banzet - Green Valley. Silver - Haley Smasne - Grandview Ag & Ec. Junior Gold - Luke Nichols - Bar X Eleven. Silver - Bailey Hays - Grow Em & Show Em. Bronze - Alexandra Hays - Grow Em & Show Em. Intermediate Gold - Lauren Nichols - Bar X Eleven. Silver - Darcy Morford - Bar X Eleven. Bronze - Bailey Dezellem - Horse Heaven Ridge Riders. Senior Gold - Carly Dahlstrom - Sun County Livestock. Silver - Justin Pace - Alderwood Herd & Home. Bronze - David Hulse - Horse Heaven Ridge Riders. FFA Gold - Danelle Cowan - Grandview FFA. Silver - Melissa Better - Goldendale FFA. Bronze - Logan Desserault - Grandview FFA. Market Swine 4-H Grand Champion - Darcy Morford - Bar X Eleven. Reserve Champion - Geordon Skyles - Lower Valley Livestock. FFA Grand Champion - Jordan Dill - Grandview FFA. Reserve Champion - Dirk Desserault - Grandview FFA. SWINE BREEDING GILT 4-H Junior Gilt Grand Champion - Maddie Morford - Bar X Eleven. Reserve Champion - Sarah Freepons - Horse Heaven Ridge Riders. FFA Junior Gilt Grand Champion - Danelle Cowan - Grandview FFA. FFA Senior Gilt Grand Champion - Leanne Cohenour - East Valley FFA. DIVISION 5 GOATS Market Goat 4-H Grand Champion - Laine Baze - Goats Inc. Reserve Champion - Emily Blizard - Goats Inc. FFA Grand Champion - Brandy Baze - Kiona Benton FFA. Reserve Champion - Leanne Cohenour - East Valley FFA. DIVISION 6 RABBITS and CAVIES Rabbit Fitting & Showing 4-H Novice Gold - Megan Lamb - Green Valley. Silver - Justin St. John - Grow Em & Show Em. Bronze - Jessica Banzet - Green Valley. Junior Gold - Kristen Wedam - Green Valley. Silver - Wyatt Baker - Pond R Roza Pardners. Bronze - Steven Hall - Grandview Ag & Ec. Intermediate Gold - Victoria Hall - Grandview Ag & Ec. Silver - Noelle Hall - Grandview Ag & Ec. Senior Gold - Helen Shuttleworth - Grandview Ag & Ec. Silver - Wade Baker - Pond R Roza Pardners. Bronze - Amanda Myers. FFA Gold - Wade Baker - Prosser FFA. Rabbit Meat Pen 4-H Grand Champion - Toni Adams - Pond R Roza Pardners. Reserve Champion - Brooke Adams - Pond R Roza Pardners. FFA Grand Champion - Wade Baker - Prosser FFA. CAVIES Grand Champion - Haley Saams. DIVISION 7 POULTRY Fitting & Showing 4-H Novice Gold - Dannie Jo Kranz - Grow Em & Show Em. Intermediate Gold - Michelle Munck - Green Valley. Silver - Sharrae Villanueva - Horse Heaven Ridge Riders. Senior Gold - Tamara ESmart - Grandview Ag & Ec. LIVESTOCK JUDGING CONTEST 4-H Junior 1 - Trey Dezellem - Horse Heaven Ridge Riders. 2 - Luke Nichols - Bar X Eleven. 3 - Rylee Suhadolnik - Horse Heaven Ridge Riders. 4 - Esther Hayter - Pond R Roza Pardners. 5 - Luke Thomas - Lower Valley Livestock. 5 - Rachel Hulse - Horse Heaven Ridge Riders. Intermediate 1 - Chance Graff - Lower Valley Livestock. 2 - Bailey Dezellem - Horse Heaven Ridge Riders. 3 - Darcy Morford - Bar X Eleven. 4 - Lauren Nichols - Bar X Eleven. 5 - Mikey Banzet - Green Valley. Senior 1 - David Bonny - Green Valley. 2 - Joey Higginbotham - Lower Valley Livestock. 3 - Brittany denHoed - Pond R Roza Pardners. 4 - Kristin Slater - Bickleton Hilltoppers. 5 - Wade Baker - Pond R Roza Pardners. FFA Team 1 - Prosser # 1. 2 - Ellensburg # 1. 3 - Naches. 4 - Toppenish. 5 - Grandview. FFA Individual 1 - Bailey Dezellem - Prosser FFA. 2 - Annie Garland - Ellensburg FFA. 3 - Kristy Andrews - Prosser FFA. 4 - Stephanie Zediker - Prosser FFA. 5 - Charlie McIntosh - Ellensburg. DAIRY JUDGING CONTEST 4-H Junior 1 - Maddie Morford - Bar X Eleven. 2 - Luke Nichols - Bar X Eleven. 3 - Ashley Dezellem - Horse Heaven Ridge Riders. 4 - Trey Dezellem - Horse Heaven Ridge Riders. Intermediate 1 - Sarah Freepons - Horse Heaven Ridge Riders. 2 - Leah Bosma - Alderwood Herd & Home. 3 - Bailey Dezellem - Horse Heaven Ridge Riders. 4 - Lauren Nichols - Bar. X. Eleven Senior 1 - Corrin Veiga - Green Valley. 2 - Paul Nichols - Bar X Eleven. 3 - Natasha Daniel. FFA Team 1 - Prosser # 1. 2 - Toppenish. 3 - Prosser # 2. Individual 1 - Eric LeyenSacher - Prosser FFA. 2 - Katherine Stancliffe - Toppenish FFA. 3 - Stephanie Suhadolnik - Prosser FFA. 4 - Bailey Dezellem - Prosser FFA. 4-H HORSE SHOW Fitting & Showing Junior 1 - Tavi Wise. 2 - Stephanie George. 3 - Kaylena Murray. Intermediate 1 - Annaka Erickson. 2 - Aissa Wise. 3 - Melissa Welch. Senior 1 - Kimber Tucker. 2 - Heidi Arreola. 3 - Melissa Better. Hunt Seatre Junior Pleasure 1 - Jessica Woodard. 2 - Tavi Wise. 3 - Stephanie George. Intermediate Pleasure 1 - Annaka Erickson. 2 - Melissa Welch. 3 - Aissa Wise. Senior Pleasure 1 - Sammy Jo Mackie. 2 - Melissa Better. 3 - Jessica Bitz Richard. Intermediate EQ 1 - Aissa Wise. 2 - Lauren Thomas. 3 - Benjamin Tucker. Senior EQ 1 - Jessica Bitz Richard. 2 - Melissa Better. 3 - Heidi Arreola. Advanced Jr. / Int. EQ 1 - Annaka Erickson. 2 - Melissa Welch Advanced Senior EQ 1 - Sammy Jo Mackie. 2 - Steven Courbridge. 3 - Kristi Kilgore. Stock Seat Junior EQ 1 - Tavi Wise. 2 - Jessica Woodard. 3 - Stephanie George. Intermediate EQ 1 - Annaka Erickson 2 - Aissa Wise. 3 - Lauren Thomas. Senior EQ 1 - Jessica Bitz Richard 2 - Kimber Tucker 3 - Steven Courbridge High Point Junior - Tavi Wise. Intermediate - Aissa Wise. Senior - Jessica Bitz Richard. Overall High Point Trail Stephanie George. Round Robin Fitting and Showing 4-H - Brittany denHoed - Pond R Roza Pardners. FFA - Brandy Baze - Ki-Be FFA. Tractor Driving 4-H Demonstration 1 - Jase Michner - Green Valley. 2 - Zach Faulk - Grandview Ag & Ec. 3 - Lane Baze - Goats Inc. FFA Career Development Event Team Placing 1 - Prosser team 2. 2 - Prosser Team 1. 3 - Ki-Be. Individual Placing 1 - Matt Hayter - Prosser FFA. 2 - Peter Freepons - Prosser FFA. 3 -Steve Hayter - Prosser FFA"}
{"Id":"1101162949913","Title":"Black Rock Creek golfers avenge 2003 'Ryder Cup' defeat to Mt. Adams linksters","Author":"Bob Story","Time":"8/20/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Score one for the home team! Ty Stotz's drive on the fifth hole Sunday epitomized the whipping the Black Rock Creek Golf Course team laid on a squad from Toppenish's Mt. Adams Country Club this past weekend. In the second annual \"Ryder Cup\" style matches between the two Lower Alderwood Valley men's clubs, Black Rock Creek handily avenged last year's defeat. The Alderwood golfers won easily, 18-1/2 to 9-1/2. The Toppenish golfers won the first ever \"Ryder Cup\" simulated event in 2003 by a neck-and-neck 14-1/2 to 13-1/2 score. This time around, the Toppenish linksters weren't any match for the high powered Black Rock Creek team. \"We stayed close with Alderwood the first day at our place on Saturday,\" said Mt. Adams Club Pro Scott Galbraith. He explained that his team only trailed Black Rock Creek by an 8-6 score after the first 36 holes of play at Mt. Adams. But when the venue for the match play competitions was switched to the Alderwood course on Sunday, the Black Rock Creek team stepped to the plate and knocked one out of the park. \"We couldn't stay with them,\" said Galbraith, a Alderwood High grad who once called the Alderwood course home. \"The Black Rock golfers kind of ran away from us,\" he lamented, explaining that his Mt. Adams team won only two of the 14 heads-up matches on Sunday. \"I don't want to say Jeff (Bender) loaded up his team this year,\" Galbraith wisecracked, \"But next year I think you'll see a few more heavy hitters coming out of our camp.\" Unfortunately for Galbraith, he may have to turn to the likes of an Ernie Els or Vijay Singh to get past the Black Rock Creek team in 2005. That is, if Ty Stotz opts to return next year to represent the Alderwood golf course. Stotz put the exclamation point on the outcome of this year's competition when he stepped up to the No. 5 tee blocks Sunday. A par-4, slightly dogleg right 326-yard hole, Stotz aced it with a drive that found nothing but cup. \"I know nobody has ever got a hole in one on a par-4 since I've been here,\" said Bender. \"And I haven't had anyone come up to me since Sunday and tell me they've heard of that happening here before, so I've got to think Ty's is the first one ever here. \"The longer hitters usually leave themselves with a wedge into the green on No. 5,\" Bender continued. \"It's pretty unusual for anybody, even our longest hitters, to reach the fifth green with their drive, because usually the ball doesn't get the roll out in front of the green. \"For Ty's drive to even make the green, then to drop it for an ace, it's pretty amazing,\" Bender said. The golfer Stotz was pitted against Sunday, Mt. Adams' Eric Inions, could only marvel at what he saw. Asked after his round how he fared, Inions said he wasn't at all displeased with how he played. Unofficially, Inions carded a one-over 73. \"But when a guy shoots a 69 against you, and scores a hole in one on a par-4, what are you going to do?,\" Inions quipped with a shrug of his shoulders. Stotz and his father, Bud, also claimed one team point for Alderwood Saturday morning at Mt. Adams, in the best ball format. The father-son duo defeated Bob Girard and Dean Jorgenson 2&1. The Stotz's lost their alternating shot contest Saturday afternoon at Mt. Adams by a rather wide margin, 5&3 to Inions and Ben Comer. Four of the Black Rock Creek golfers posted perfect 3-0 records in the Aug. 14-15 match-ups, one of whom was the club pro, Bender. He and Bob Hall didn't have to play past hole 14 Saturday morning, topping Galbraith and Comer by a 6&4 score in the best ball format. Bender also teamed with Hall to knock off Galbraith and Keith Grace 5&4 in the alternating shot match-up Saturday afternoon. In Sunday's heads-up match, Bender was a 3&2 winner over his club pro counterpart, Galbraith. Hall, too, won all three of his matches. Besides teaming with Bender for two of the wins, Hall was a 3&2 winner over Bob Greene Sunday morning at Black Rock Creek. Souta Nozaka was another of the three-time winners for Alderwood. A former Gonzaga University men's golf team member, Nozaka made short work of Steve Smythe in Sunday's heads-up match, winning 6&4. Nozaka was paired with David Stokes in both of Saturday's matches. The duo was a 4&3 winner over Smythe and Inions in best ball, and won by the same score in the alternating shot format against Smythe and Jorgenson. Black Rock Creek's other three-time winner was Juan Guerrero. He and Mike Clark defeated Greene and Kirk Komstadius by a 2&1 score in best ball play, and Guerrero and Clark bested Girard and James Rogers by a 3&1 score in the alternating shots contest. Heads-up Sunday morning, Guerrero ended his match against Stan Buckner on No. 14, winning 5&4. The Toppenish contingent had five golfers who posted 2-1 records. The two-time winners included Rogers, Grace, Mike Barnick, Javier Valdez and Dean Schuler. Besides tying the \"Ryder Cup\" series at 1-all and winning bragging rights for a year, the Black Rock Creek golfers will get to relish the thought that one of their flags is fluttering in the breeze over the ninth green at Mt. Adams. \"That's the payout,\" laughed Bender. \"The losing team has to fly one of the pin flags from the winners' home course on one of their greens for a full month.\" The Black Rock Creek flag officially went up at the Toppenish course this past Wednesday. Good naturedly, Galbraith allowed Bender to plant the flag on the ninth hole, \"...so that Scott can look out his pro shop window every day for a month and see our flag waving on his course,\" chuckled Bender. The bonus to the payout this year, added Bender, is that the flag will by flying this coming weekend, when the Toppenish course hosts its biggest invitational of the summer-the annual Round-up tournament for couples. \"When all those couples roll into Mt. Adams this weekend and see our Black Rock Creek flag on number nine, that should generate some questions for Scottie,\" Bender smiled. \"I had to answer a few last year when golfers at our course saw the Toppenish flag flying on number 18,\" Bender added wryly. . Bob Story,can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or e-mail him at bstory@hawkpress.com Bob Story/Alderwood Daily News Mt. Adams Country Club PGA Professional Scott Galbraith (L) grudgingly assists Black Rock Creek Golf Course PGA Professional Jeff Bender with attaching a Black Rock Creek flag to the pin on the ninth green at the Toppenish course. Galbraith and his team lost this year's \"Ryder Cup\" matches and the payout included flying one of Black Rock Creek's flags for a full month. 2004 Lower Valley Ryder Cup results Best Ball Jeff Bender & Bob Hall (BR) def. Scott Galbraith & Ben Comer 6&4. David Stokes & Souta Nozaka (BR) def. Steve Smythe & Eric Inions 4&3. Ty Stotz & Chad Stotz (BR) def. Bob Girard & Dean Jorgenson 2&1. Mike Barnick & James Rogers (MA) def. Andrew Stitler & Pete Veliz 2&1. Mike Clark & Juan Guerrero (BR) def. Bob Greene & Kirk Komstadius 2&1. Keith Grace & Stan Buckner (MA) def. Jack Syverson & Buzz Blake 1 Up. Javier Valdez & Dean Schuler (MA) def. Randy Boast & Rudy Fernandez 5&4. Alternate Shot Jeff Bender & Bob Hall (BR) def. Scott Galbraith & Keith Grace 5&4. David Stokes & Souta Nozaka (BR) def. Steve Smythe & Dean Jorgenson 4&3. Eric Inions & Ben Comer (MA) def. Ty Stotz & Chad Stotz 5&3. Andrew Stitler & Les Bender (BR) def. Stan Buckner & Javier Valdez 4&3. Mike Clark & Juan Guerrero (BR) def. Bob Girard & James Rogers 3&1. Bob Greene & Kirk Komstadius (MA) def. Jack Syverson & Buzz Blake 5&4. Mike Barnick & Dean Schuler (MA) def. Randy Boast & Rudy Fernandez 5&3. Individual Heads-up Jeff Bender (BR) def. Scott Galbraith 3&2. Souta Nozaka (BR) def. Steve Smythe 6&4. Bob Hall (BR) def. Bob Greene 3&2. Pete Veliz (BR) def. Bob Girard 4&3. Keith Grace (MA) def. David Stokes 4&3. Chad Stotz (BR) def. Kirk Komstadius 4&3. Mike Clark (BR) halved with Ben Comer (MA). Ty Stotz (BR) def. Eric Inions 2 Up. Andrew Stitler (BR) def. D. Jorgenson 2&1. Javier Valdez (MA) def. Randy Boast 1 Up. James Rogers (MA) def. Buzz Blake 2&1. Jack Syverson (BR) def. Mike Barnick 6&5. Juan Guerrero (BR) def. Stan Buckner 5&4. Rudy Fernandez (BR) def. Dean Schuler 3&2"}
{"Id":"1101162964241","Title":"Palacios returns from national motocross race","Author":"John Panni","Time":"8/20/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"With age and experience comes wisdom. Case in point, Damon Palacios of Grandview. Palacios qualified for the American Motocross Association Amateur/Youth National Motocross Championship at Loretta Lynn's ranch in Tennessee Aug. 2-7. Turning 7 in late June, he is now more experienced after being able to compete at a race not too many motocross riders his age get to take part in. Palacios was one of 42 motocross racers in his classification, the 51cc 4-6 Stock Oil Injection division, to compete for national championship honors. Palacios ended up finishing 36th out of the pack. The field featured motocross riders from all over the United States, including Minnesota, Texas, Florida, California and even Bermuda. Palacios was one of only a couple of riders from Washington state. Palacios qualified for the prestigious national race by winning a Regional qualifying event in Washougal in June. Damon's father, Dave, said his son didn't catch much of a break right from the start, getting handed the 38th spot in the gate pick, which put him on the difficult opposite side of the first turn. \"It was strictly luck of the draw,\" said Dave. Damon said he had never raced on a course like the one at Loretta Lynn's estate at Hurricane Mills. \"The course was hard,\" said Damon. Damon added he had never seen so many expert riders as he did at the national championships. The most difficult spot on the course, said Damon, was an area referred to as \"The 10 Commandments.\" The commandments are a set of 10 hills that riders hit in consecutive stride. \"There are a lot of ruts on them,\" said Damon. Damon said the commandments were very chLofferging because as soon as he would come down one hill, he would hit another that would send him shooting back into the air. Damon, though, said he was pleased for the most part with how he rode. Dave thought his son did well at the event, even though he said Damon would have liked to done better. Dave said on a couple of the turns his son was dead last and worked his way back through the pack. Besides competing, Damon said he had a great time watching the \"big guys\" race. Damon said it was exciting to see them speed around the course. Damon also had a good time playing in Hurricane Creek, a river running through Lynn's estate. Damon said he saw all sorts of creatures such as crawfish and frogs. \"It is very kid oriented there,\" said Dave. Dave said Lynn's estate had all kinds of areas dedicated to keeping youngsters busy, including an arcade. \"It is something a kid would dream of,\" grinned Damon. Damon also had the opportunity to see two of his idols at the event, motocross riders Bubba Stewart and Ivan Tedesco. Damon and his parents took time out during their two-week excursion to see some of the sights along the way. Among the places the family stopped at were Mt. Rushmore, the St. Louis arch, Graceland, the Sears Tower in Chicago, Abraham Lincoln's birthplace and the Crazy Horse memorial. Dave said they also had a chance to tour Lynn's home. Damon also had the chance to take his first taxi cab ride, which he said was something to experience in a \"big city.\" Damon said his favorite stop on the tour was the Greyhound Hall of Fame in Abilene, Kansas, a museum dedicated to dog racing. Damon said he liked looking at all of the dog items in the museum. Dave said he was very proud of how his son did. \"A little better gate pick and he could have easily been in the top 20,\" said Dave. Palacios said there are a lot of motocross races that a person can compete at, but Lynn's is the biggest one. \"This is by far the most prestigious one to go to,\" said Dave. \"It is kind of like the Rose Bowl"}
{"Id":"1101162964538","Title":"Grandview teen looks ahead to 2005 Presidential inaugural","Author":"Jamie Smart","Time":"8/19/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"GRANDVIEW - While most young people are eagerly awaiting the start of the new school year, Presidential Classroom Scholar Ashley Lara of Grandview is eagerly watching the presidential campaign between President George W. Bush and Democratic presidential candidate John Kerry. Even though she isn't yet old enough to vote, Lara has an intense interest in this year's presidential race. \"No matter who wins, I have plans to attend the Presidential inauguration,\" said the enthusiastic teenager. This past summer Lara, a Grandview High School junior, toured Washington D.C. as a participant in the Presidential Classroom Scholars Program. The program introduces American teens to the inner workings of the federal government, allowing them to examine how current issues affect public policy, she explained. As a Presidential Classroom Scholar, Lara had an opportunity to meet national leaders and to learn about careers in public service. \"I had a wonderful time in Washington, D.C.,\" she said. Lara spent seven days in the nation's capital, where she not only experienced the hustle of life in the District of Columbia, she also had an opportunity to tour a number of national monuments, including the Washington Memorial. \"We had an extremely busy schedule, attending lots of seminars and meeting lots of people, such as Ralph Nader,\" she said. \"We also had the chance to sit in on a Senate hearing, tour the White House and to attend a CIA briefing,\" Lara added. As a part of the Washington D.C. experience, Lara met with Washington state representatives. and sat on the House floor where the inaugurations are held. No trip to the nation's capital would be complete without a tour of the Capitol Building, the Library of Congress, Ford Theater and the Lincoln Memorial, all sites the Grandview teenager visited during her July visit to the city. Lara said one of the highlights of the trip was celebrating the Fourth of July at Fort McNair overlooking the Potomac River. She also watched the changing of the guard and the laying of a wreath on the tomb of the Unknown Soldier at Arlington National Cemetery. \"We did so many things and I am very grateful to all the people and different organizations that sponsored my Washington D.C. trip,\" she said. \"Overall, it was everything I expected, and so much more,\" she said. \"I made a lot of close friends from across the nation and hope to see some of them again in January when I return to witness the swearing in of our next president,\" she added. \"I'm very excited about the inauguration in January,\" she said, noting she is now working to raise money for her travel expenses. Saying she admires President Bush, she will support whoever wins the November election. \"Personally, I prefer the Bush-Cheney ticket,\" she said. \"I admire Bush. I believe he has stayed true to is beliefs and has a strong moral character,\" Lara said. Lara's past year was also highlighted by her selection to star in a series of educational videos, which will be used by the Office of the Superintendent of Public Instruction as a part of its \"Student Engagement Project.\" Lara's father, Sabio Lara, said the videos are directed at high school students and their parents, explaining the importance of standardized testing, senior cumulative projects and other issues facing today's students. \"Ashley was chosen for the video as a result of a presentation she made in March as a nominee to be a junior representative to the State Board of Education,\" he explained. While she was one of five finalists for the spot, she didn't land the state board position. \"She was later contacted and asked if she would be interested in working on the video project,\" he added. \"It was very interesting working on the video and I met a lot of great people,\" she said. Lara said the video will be distributed to schools throughout the state this school year. \"It's been a fun year,\" said the poised, young woman. \"I'm looking forward to what this next year will bring,\" she smiled"}
{"Id":"1101162964773","Title":"Andrus and Roberts ready to rebuild","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"8/19/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"A fire destroyed one of the warehouses at Andrus and Roberts Produce Company earlier this year. The owners of the Alderwood business are getting ready to rebuild. Last month, Columbia River Steel and Construction Incorporated applied for a building permit from the Alderwood Building Division for the construction of a new warehouse on the site where the old warehouse once stood. The permit assesses a project valuation of 800,000, with the permit fee alone costing 7,691. The permit for the Andrus and Roberts project was one of 75 permits issued by the Alderwood Building Division in July. Chad Roberts of Andrus and Roberts said the new warehouse will be the same size as the previous facility. Guy Roberts said the building should measure approximately 225x80 feet, and will include two cold rooms and a potato packing area on one end of the warehouse. He said the new warehouse will be newer and therefore a little more attractive than the building that previously sat at the site. He said the building that was ravaged by fire in February was one of the company's original buildings. The warehouse was destroyed by an early morning fire in February, which closed Yakima Valley Highway and Highway 241 while firefighters battled the blaze. At the time of the fire, the Alderwood Fire Department estimated the cost of damages to be around 1 million. Guy said construction of the new warehouse should begin soon, noting that the building should be completed by the beginning of next year. He added that the new warehouse will also include a new potato packing line, as well as other new equipment and machinery. The warehouse should be ready for next year's potato season, which runs for several weeks toward the end of summer through the beginning of fall. Guy said this year's potato season just started about three weeks ago and should continue for several more weeks. Other projects that were issued permits by the city of Alderwood in July include a construction project at 625 Midvale Rd. A building permit was issued to the Port of Alderwood for the construction of a new operations office, which is part of the Sequence Batch Reactor project the Port has been working on for some time. The Alderwood School District was also issued several permits last month, including building, plumbing and mechanical permits for work to the Alderwood High School football field concession stand at 1801 E. Edison Ave. Over the summer the concession stand was remodeled. The project included enlarging the stand and adding on to the restrooms. During July, the city's building division conducted 294 inspections and collected 23,704 in permit fees for projects with a total valuation of more than 1.96 million. The permits issued included 33 building permits, 13 mechanical permits and 11 plumbing permits, as well as four sewer connection fees, six water connection fees, one water meter permit and three public works permits for curb, gutter and sidewalk work"}
{"Id":"1101162965023","Title":"Kindergarten parent orientation evenings set","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"8/18/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Realizing that the first day of school can be exciting and scary for the parents of kindergarten children, the Alderwood Parent Information Resource Center is hosting a series of parent orientation meetings beginning Thursday, Aug. 19. The meetings, to be held at each of Alderwood School District's elementary schools, will cover such topics as the importance of attendance and tardiness. Other topics will include how to prepare children for school and monitoring of their homework, according to Yesenia Rodriguez of the Parent Resource Center. She said issues, such as bus routes, student insurance and lunches, will also be covered. The first orientation meeting will be held Thursday, Aug. 19, for parents of Washington Elementary School kindergartners at 6 p.m. Tuesday, Aug. 24, the parent meeting will be held at Pioneer Elementary School, also at 6 p.m. The parents of Outlook Elementary School kindergarten students are invited to meet Thursday, Aug. 26, at 6 p.m. The meetings are being provided jointly by the Washington State Migrant Council, Alderwood's Promise and the Parent Information Resource Center"}
{"Id":"1101162965273","Title":"Residency program focuses on training doctors for rural life","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"8/18/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"The process of becoming a doctor is a long, prolonged affair, and often times includes four years of medical school, plus an additional one or two years of post graduate training. However, this is not where training to become a doctor ends. Instead, doctors then must complete a residency, which for family practice physicians means an additional three years of training. Wednesday morning, Dr. Vicki Black of Central Washington Family Medicine in Yakima talked to members of the Alderwood Daybreak Rotary Club about the Yakima residency program. She noted that the program works specifically to train family practice physicians. Black said family practice physicians are important in places like Washington state, that include a lot of rural areas. She told Rotarians that without family practice doctors, places like Washington would be in dire straits as far as available physicians are concerned. According to Black, Central Washington Family Medicine's residency program was first opened in the early 1990s. She said the residency program was started jointly by Yakima Valley Memorial Hospital and Yakima Regional Hospital, which still sponsors the program. She said the residency program is also affiliated with the University of Washington Network of Family Practice Residencies. She noted that this affiliation brings the Yakima residency program in contact with similar programs in 13 states across the nation. She said this helps bring additional resources to the local program and allows for the sharing of information. Black said there are certain rules and requirements that come with operating a residency program. She said these requirements come through the American College of Graduate Medical Education. At this point, Black told Rotarians that the Yakima residency program takes the overall requirements and adds additional requirements that help prepare doctors to work in rural areas. She said they spend a little more time training in the emergency room, as well as going out and practicing with established rural doctors. Black explained that Central Washington Family Medicine offers a three-year program, noting that there are six students currently serving as first-year residents, six students serving as second-year residents and six students serving as third-year residents. She said the local program just received its most recent first-year residents in July. Black told Rotarians that Central Washington Family Medicine is set up like a community practice. Those in training see patients on a regular basis. She explained that working in the family practice center not only gives the residents more time with patients, but also exposes them to other aspects of an office environment. She said the center teaches them about everything from billing and coding to time management. Although the residents each have their own patients, Black said there are also preceptors on hand. These are physicians who oversee the students' work. Black said the students work around a schedule that includes 13 four-week blocks. During each of these four-week blocks the students are trained in various areas. This means by the time a resident has completed their third year they have spent time learning all of the different skills that are required of them. According to Black, besides teaching the different skills required of residents, Central Washington Family Medicine also tries to instill in its doctors a sense of community. She said residents are involved in the United Way Day of Caring program, they provide sports physicals for local students and take part in the Tar Wars program, which is aimed at teaching fifth grade students the dangers of smoking. Black told Rotarians that many of the students who have taken part in the Yakima residency program have gone on to practice in rural areas, from Wapato to Wenatchee"}
{"Id":"1101162965507","Title":"Outlook troop doing its part to save Girl Scout Council","Author":"Mel Sacher","Time":"8/18/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"When Outlook Daisy Girl Scout leader Andrea Gatica learned that the Mid Columbia Council had to come up with 50,000 or face closure, she nearly fell over. Gatica said that every council is required to have a \"Give from the Heart\" fund, which allows girls who can't afford Girl Scouts to still participate in the program. The money is used for dues, uniforms and other expenses the girls have, said Gatica. There are 90 troops in the Mid Columbia Council. Six of those troops are in Grandview, five in Alderwood and one in Outlook. Since she learned the news, Gatica and other parents of Girl Scouts have been working to raise the money needed, finding individual donors and businesses interested in supporting Girl Scouts. \"A lot of parents just don't have the funding,\" she said. The troop also made a donation to the fund. Outlook Daisy Girl Scout troop #397 donated half of its winnings for their booth at the Yakima Valley Fair and Rodeo to the \"Give from the Heart\" fund. The other half of the money, or 75, will be used to purchase ceremonial flags, which will be needed as the girls transfer from Daisies to Brownies. The vibrant red display at this year's Grandview fair featured pictures of the girl's activities, as well as the goals the Daisy Scouts learn to live by. \"We were not expecting to win,\" said Gatica. As part of this past year's activities they Outlook group made \"Girls are Great\" suncatchers, said Gatica. Their scrapbook highlighted events such as the Daddy-Daughter Dinner. \"They made invitations for their dads and for half an hour they got to sit down with their dad or grandfather, an adult male who cares about them,\" said Gatica. At the dinner, the girls made each of their dad's favorite dish for the meal. The girls also had a Mommy and Me Tea, said Gatica. \"We taught them how to serve, and etiquette,\" she added. The girls had a Got Sweats drive at Outlook Elementary School and were able to collect three huge boxes of clothing, which will be used for students at the school this next year. After the clothing drive, Gatica said, the girls had to find five additional acts of service that they wouldn't normally do. \"It's about going out and making yourself a better person,\" Gatica added. \"I've already seen a change even in my own child, in her behavior and how she treats people,\" said Gatica. Those interested in donating to the Give from the Heart fund can call the Girl Scout Council, (800) 967-8113. Contributions are tax deductible"}
{"Id":"1101162965773","Title":"Sports Briefs","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"8/18/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"1-Column Harrison football players to begin practices Aug. 26 Alderwood's Harrison Middle School football team will begin practicing next Thursday, Aug. 26. The team is open to all Alderwood seventh and eighth graders. Harrison's girls volleyball, boys soccer and cross country squads will hold their first practices Wednesday, Sept. 1, immediately following classes that day. Each athlete at Harrison Middle School must pass a physical exam, fill out WIAA and eligibility forms, pay an ASB fee and have proof of insurance before they can begin practicing. Sports information packets can be picked up now at Harrison. Scholarship scramble winners at Black Rock Creek announced Carding a 13-under 59, the foursome of Ron Harle, Tim Johnson, Adam Johnson and Mitch Harle won the 2004 Prosser Scholarship Scramble at Alderwood's Black Rock Creek Golf Course this past Saturday. The net winners (actual score minus handicap) in the one-day fund-raising tournament was the squad of Jim Holt, Rick Hair, Dean Benson and Jeff Moore. They posted a handicap-aided 53"}
{"Id":"1101162966023","Title":"Community Calendar","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"8/17/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"4-calendar rev. updated 8/17/04 second and fourth Mondays Alderwood City Council meets the second and fourth Mondays at 7 p.m. at the Alderwood Law and Justice Center, Homer Street. first and third mondays Grandview City Council meets the first and third Mondays at 7:30 p.m. in the City Council Chambers at Grandview City Hall, 207 W. 2nd St. in Grandview. Study sessions begin at 6 p.m. Mondays Al-Anon meetings are held Mondays 7 to 8 p.m. at Alderwood Community Hospital in the main lobby. MONDAYS Alderwood TOPS (Take Off Pounds Sensibly) Chapter meets 6:30 to 7:30 p.m. at Alderwood Senior Citizen Center, 1400 Federal Way. Call Nancy at 837-3650 for details. Mondays Alderwood Noon Rotary meets at noon at Snipes Mountain Brewery and Restaurant, Yakima Valley Highway. second mondays The Caregiver Support Group, sponsored by Aging and Long Term Care of Southeast Washington, meets at 2 p.m. in room 7 of the St. Joseph Parish Center, 907 S. Sixth St. in Alderwood. For more information about the group call 837-2243 or 837-4436. Third Mondays Lower Valley Christian Women meet at The Barn Restaurant, Wine Country Road, Prosser, at 11:30 a.m. Call 894-4610 for information. Tuesdays KOSMOS - over 50 singles group meets 6 to 8 p.m. For meeting place call Gloria Alexander at 837-8386 or Bob Van Horn at 837-8485. Tuesdays Compassionate Connection Support Group meets at 3 p.m. at Sunny Spot Restaurant, Yakima Valley Highway. Call 837-2339 or 837-5406 for more information. Tuesdays Community Service Food Bank, at the Seventh-day Adventist Church, East Lincoln Avenue. Winter hours are 9 to 11:30 a.m. Tuesdays Chess Club meets at 7 p.m. at Banner Bank meeting room. Open to everyone, beginners welcome. Call Carl McDonald at 837-6129. first Tuesday House committee of the VFW Sunny View Post #3482 meets at 6 p.m. at the post home, 615 North Ave. Second Tuesday Horizon Quilters Unlimited of Yakima Valley meets at 9:30 a.m. through noon at Immanuel Lutheran Church, 300 S. Euclid and 3rd, Grandview. For more information call 837-7069. Second Tuesday VFW Sunny View Post #3482 and Ladies Auxiliary meet at 7 p.m. at the post home, 615 North Ave. Second and fourth Tuesday Mabton Food Bank open from 10 a.m. to noon for pick-up or donations of food items at Mabton V.F.W. Hall across from Mabton High School. Call 894-4273 to arrange donations. Third Tuesdays American Veterans Post #95 meets at 132 Division, Grandview, at 7 p.m. Call 882-1058 for more information. Fourth Tuesdays The Alderwood Masonic Lodge No. 138, F.&A.M., meets at 7:30 p.m. Call Bill Flower, 837-3505 for details. Fourth Tuesdays Alderwood Garden Club meets at 1:00 p.m. Call 837-4138 for location. Wednesdays Alderwood Daybreak Rotary meets at 6:45 a.m. at Alderwood Community Hospital. Wednesdays Moms in Touch International, a non-denominational group that prays for children and schools, Call 837-3459 for day and location. Wednesdays Lower Valley Toastmasters meets at 6:30 a.m. at the Alderwood Community Hospital administrative conference room. Call Bac Nguyen at 882-6120 for more information. First and third Wednesdays Alderwood Chapter #134 Order of Eastern Star, meets at 8 p.m. at the Masonic Temple, Sixth and Harrison. Second Wednesdays Harrison Middle School Booster Club meets at 7:15 p.m. at the middle school library. Second Wednesdays Mabton VFW Post #10384 Barnard R. Christiansen Post meets at 7:30 p.m. at the Mabton post home, B. Street. Second and fourth Wednesdays Golden Agers potluck dinners and meetings at noon at the Alderwood Senior Citizen Center, 1400 Federal Way. Call 837-5572 for details. All persons age 55 and older are welcome. Second Wednesday Credit Professionals International meets every second and fourth Wednesday at 7 a.m. at Alderwood Community Hospital. Call Joyce Wells, 882-2248 for details. second Wednesdays Yakima Regional Clean Air Authority meets the second Wednesday of every month at 1:30 p.m. in room B33 at the Yakima County Courthouse. Fourth Wednesdays AmVets Post #3733 meets at SunnyView VFW Post #3482, 615 North Avenue. 7 p.m. thursdays Alderwood Kiwanis Club meets at 6:45 a.m. at Our Saviour s Lutheran Church, Grandview & Taylor Ave. Meetings are open to the public. Thursdays Cribbage Club meets every Thursday at 7 p.m. at the Eagles Lodge, South Hill Road. For more information, contact Linda Johnson, 837-5636. Thursdays TOPS #Wa. 1232 Grandview meets at 8 a.m. through 10 a.m. at Immanuel Lutheran Church, 300 S. Euclid, Grandview. Call 882-5525 for more information. Second Thursdays The Lower Valley Fibromyalgia Support Group, a Lower Valley Hospice Education Outreach Program, meets at Alderwood United Methodist Church, Ninth Street and E. Edison Avenue, 6-7:30 p.m., Edison Avenue entrance. Call 837-4818 for details. Second Thursdays Grandview VFW Post #6929 meets at 7 p.m. at the post home, 132 Division St., Grandview. SECOND THURSDAY Alderwood Ministerial Association meets second Thursdays of each month. For more information call 837-2734. (not meeting in June, July, or August or the first Thursday of April.) Second and fourth Thursdays Regular meeting dates for the Alderwood Lions Clubs. Meetings are held at Alderwood Community Center 6:30 p.m. Call 839-2574 for membership information. Fourth Thursdays Alderwood School Board meets the last Thursday of each month at 7 p.m. at the Denny Blaine Building, Custer Avenue. Lower Valley Bridge Club Meets Thursdays at 10:30 a.m., and Mondays at 7:30 p.m. at Alderwood Banner Bank, East Edison Avenue. Last Thursday Lower Valley Diabetic Support Group, at Alderwood Community Health and Information Center, Ninth Street and Franklin Avenue, 7 p.m. No charge for attending. Call 837-1624 for details. Second Fridays Sunny Valley Grange #870 meets at 8 p.m. at the grange hall, Factory Road. A potluck and social is held on the fourth Friday of each month at 6:30 p.m. Fridays Consumer Credit Counseling every Friday in Alderwood at Banner Bank of Washington. Call 1-800-273-6897 for an appointment. FRIDAYS Adolescent pregnancy and parenting program in Alderwood at Planned Parenthood office. Call 837-5005 for more information. mondays and wednesdays and fridays Ministerial Food Bank at 8:30-11:30 a.m. at 8th and Decatur Ave. in Alderwood. Call 837-6754 for details"}
{"Id":"1101162966273","Title":"Science teacher Joyce Stark earns Albert Einstein Fellowship","Author":"Jamie Smart","Time":"8/17/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"For the first time since 1977, Joyce Stark won't be returning to her Alderwood School District classroom when school starts up for the new year next week. Instead, the award-winning high school science teacher will be on her way to Washington D.C., where she will spend the next school year involved in marine biology research and policy making as an Albert Einstein Distinguished Educator Fellow. Known for her devotion to the Alderwood School District's science fair program, Stark will be taking a nine-month sabbatical from her Alderwood High School teaching position to participate in the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration's (NOAA) Emerging Young Scientists and Teacher at Sea programs, according to Dr. Aaron Bones, superintendent of Alderwood School District. Stark, who in 2002 was awarded the Presidential Distinguished Educator Award, was one of only 11 teachers nationwide to be awarded the prestigious Albert Einstein fellowship after an intensive national screening process, Bones said. \"She will be collaborating with personnel of other federal agencies and in Congressional offices, while living in Washington, D.C. during the coming year,\" Bones said. Stark said she will be living in Silver Springs, just outside the nation's capital, while working at the U.S. Department of Commerce Building. As an Albert Einstein Fellow, Stark will be providing practical insights and real world perspectives to policy makers and program managers developing or managing education programs, she explained. Saying she is excited to be given the opportunity to participate in the program, Stark explained that she was chosen after going through three interviews. \"I made the cut from 27 educators to be interviewed by members of the National Science Foundation and the NOAA,\" she said. Stark will begin her nine- month fellowship just after Labor Day. Stark said the fellowship will provide her with a 5,550 monthly stipend, plus moving expenses and a professional travel allowance. Her husband, Dick, a college biology professor at Columbia Basin College, will be joining her in Washington D.C., where he expects to be working during the coming school year. \"It's quite an honor to be chosen for the fellowship,\" Stark said. \"I'm looking forward to doing research and working with the NOAA officials on public policy,\" she added. The fellowship program was enacted by Congress and is funded by the Department of Energy Office of Science with participation from federal agencies, including the National Science Foundation, the NOAA and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration. Stark heard about the fellowship last November during a trip to the nation's capital, where she learned that as a Presidential Educator Award winner she was eligible to apply for the fellowship program. To be considered, Stark had to show evidence of her excellence in teaching science, demonstrate her inquiry-based and innovative teaching style, her sustained professional growth, as well as her outstanding leadership ability. Stark has long been active in developing and sustaining local science programs, organizing and hosting both local and regional science fairs for school-age students. She is the current chair of the Mid-Columbia Regional Science and Engineering Science Fair. In addition, she has been recognized on numerous occasions for her involvement with the development and expansion of the Washington State Science and Engineering Fair awards program. Under her guidance, Stark's science fair students have repeatedly been selected for regional and state science championships, earning them all expense-paid trips to the prestigious International Science and Engineering Fair since 1982. Stark can point with pride to many AHS science champions who passed through her classes, who have gone on to be involved in science and engineering-related careers as a result of their science fair experiences. \"In fact, my very first international science fair champion, Teri Alvarez-Ziegler, will begin teaching her own science students this fall at Alderwood's PRIDE High School,\" she said. Despite her physical absence from the Alderwood School District science fair program during the coming year, Stark still plans to be involved. She expects to be helping with the designing and editing of the AHS science students' 2005 science fair projects. \"I'm still the co-chair of the Mid-Columbia Regional Science and Engineering Fair. So I expect to be in close contact with my co-chair, Laurie Gilmer-Dillman of Grandview Middle School,\" she said. In addition to giving Alderwood High School science fair participants access to her vast scientific knowledge, Stark expects to be giving her replacement, Ryan Campanella of Richland, a helping hand as needed. Stark said Campanella, a graduate of Central Washington University, is excited to be taking part in the high school science fair, in addition to his high school science classes. \"He'll be working with fellow science teacher Robin Bryson, who will be heading up the local science fair program,\" Stark explained. She said Harrison Middle School science teacher John Hayes will also be helping to coordinate the annual exhibition of Alderwood School District science projects. \"The local science fair will go on, and I'll still be active in it,\" she said. Excited to be living near Chesapeake Bay during the coming months, Stark said she also hopes to be allowed to do some experiments aboard the NOAA's research ships, which are docked near Silver Springs. \"I have several experiments I conducted while working on the Alantis that I want to continue,\" she said. \"This is going to be one exciting year,\" she said"}
{"Id":"1101162966523","Title":"Curriculum developed detailing how Americans were forced from their homes and locked away in concentration camps","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"8/16/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"When Kara Kondo was a young girl she was taken from her home, forced to give up nearly all of her possessions and was escorted to a train by armed soldiers for a long trek to a concentration camp she would call home. Kondo was not a criminal. She had done nothing wrong. The only crime she committed was living on the west coast of the United States during World War II. When the Japanese bombed Pearl Harbor on Dec. 7, 1941, the world changed for Kondo and others like her. People who had moved from Japan to the United States decades earlier were suddenly being accused of spying for their home country. \"You're a traitor, more like a spy. Why, because you're Caucasian or African American or Asian or European or Middle Eastern. There have been allegations against 'your people,' not Americans, but the people [who] share your skin color, of spying. You might not have known, but it's safer to put all of 'you' away, just in case, since color and ancestry, not personality, determines whether you are trustworthy or not. \"This is basically what President Roosevelt said to all people with at least 1/16 Japanese blood living in California, western Oregon, western Washington and southern Arizona, citizen or not, in February of 1942 in Executive Order 9066,\" writes Elizabeth Church, a student in Irene Wells's class at Discovery Lab School in Yakima. The students in Wells's class spent an entire school year researching the experiences of Japanese Americans during the United States' involvement in World War II. The middle school students interviewed Japanese Americans who lived in the Yakima Valley during that point in history, read books about relocation centers and visited museums to learn about the experience. Kondo, one of the women interviewed by the students for the project, said during the taped interview that she remembers calling the relocation centers, concentration camps. \"Relocation center is a nice term for concentration camps,\" Kondo said in the tape. Kondo, who was born in the Yakima Valley and grew up in Wapato, told the students that her father came to the United States from Japan in 1905, with her mother following in 1912. She said her mother grew up in a privileged family in Kobe, Japan, leaving it all to live with her husband in the brush land of eastern Washington. \"You can't imagine what it was like in 1912,\" Kondo said. She explained to Wells's class that it was all sagebrush, with dirt roads meant for horse and buggy traffic. Kondo added that making the adjustment was difficult for her mother, who couldn't speak English. \"I'm not sure how she got through it,\" Kondo said. However, her mother wasn't the only Japanese immigrant working to adjust to life in the Yakima Valley. Kondo explained during the interview that in the 1920s the Valley became a popular area for Japanese immigrants to settle. She noted that once the Japanese began to arrive in the Valley, they started to isolate themselves. She said the Japanese immigrants couldn't speak English, ate different foods and had their own traditions. She told the students that isolation meant they could speak to each other in their own language and eat familiar foods, making it feel more like home. \"It was a small community within a larger community,\" she said. Kondo told the students that the Japanese community in the Yakima Valley had their own clubs and churches. She said the Japanese Methodist Church was established in the early 1920s and the Japanese Buddhist Church was established in the early 1930s in Wapato. One of the reasons Japanese immigrants settled in the Yakima Valley, Kondo said in the tape, was because people coming from Japan were not given the right of citizenship, which meant they were unable to purchase land. She explained that it ended up being easier for them to lease land from the Yakama Nation. \"That is why many of them lived on the reservation,\" Kondo told the students. One of the students in Wells's class, Lauren Antonio, said after hearing Kondo talk about the isolation of the Japanese in America and after reading the book \"Farewell to Manzinea,\" several class members got together to talk about whether or not the students had ever felt isolated from society because they were different. Antonio said during the discussion it became apparent that many of his classmates felt that at some point in their lives they had been bothered because they were different. He said there were a wide range of things that came up during the discussion. Antonio said one thing the entire group agreed on after the discussion, is that although they may have felt singled out or different at some point in their lives, it was nothing like what happened to the Japanese living in the United States more than 60 years ago. Kondo told the students that she can still remember the day Pearl Harbor was attacked. She said on Dec. 7, 1941, she remembers going to church but not hearing the radio announcement that the Navy base had been bombed. \"My father looked very, very troubled when we got home,\" Kondo told the students. \"That was when we realized that Pearl Harbor was bombed.\" Kondo said in the taped interview that she remembers her family being uncertain as to what would happen to them. According to Kondo, it was just days after the attack that many of the leaders of the local Japanese community were picked up by the FBI. She said this meant there were families who didn't know where their fathers were taken. \"In a way, the community was without their leaders,\" she said. \"That was the first reaction.\" However, in the days and weeks that passed after the attack on Pearl Harbor life for the Japanese living in the United States became more and more restrictive. Kondo told the students that the government first confiscated their guns, swords, radios and cameras. She said they were then given an 8 p.m. curfew, meaning that no one of Japanese ancestry could be out of their home after that time each evening. Kondo said in the interview that another restriction meant Japanese-Americans could not travel more than 15 miles from their homes and if they did, they had to be back by 6 p.m. that evening. \"Day by day these orders came down,\" Kondo told the students. \"You knew you could not be as free as we were before.\" Church wrote in her Japanese internment essay that what other Americans didn't understand about the bombing of Pearl Harbor was that it also affected Japanese Americans, because they lived in the United States. \"The Japanese of America were just as affected as others after the bombing of Pearl Harbor because they, too, were Americans,\" Church wrote. \"Still others automatically convicted people of Japanese ancestry of being spies because they were afraid and wanted all measure of safety to be taken by the U.S. government to keep them safe...But no one in America was actually convicted of spying before, during or after the two years the Japanese internment lasted. In fact, Japanese- Americans themselves were shocked when they were accused of spying for a country that they didn't even consider theirs.\" Kondo said during the taped interview that she remembers Jan. 19 as the date the government sent down orders for exclusion. She explained to the students that at first the order stated that all people of Japanese ancestry living within 150 miles of the Pacific coast of the United States be sent to relocation camps. Kondo said for Japanese living in the Yakima Valley, it made life more uncertain because they lived just outside that 150-mile mark. She told Wells's class that people in the area were told to continue living their lives as usual and to keep farming. \"For a long time we weren't sure whether the people from the Yakima area would be taken and put into camps,\" Kondo said during the interview. Then in April 1942, the area of those to be sent to camp was enlarged, with the entire area from the Columbia River to Canada being established as a military zone. She said that was when the Japanese in the Yakima Valley were notified that they too would be evacuated. \"What does that mean?,\" Kondo asked the students. \"[It means] you will be taken from your home.\" Kondo said this meant that people had to prepare to only take with them what they could carry. She said by late May people had either sold or stored most of their possessions. When it came to time to leave Wapato, Kondo told the students she can still remember soldiers coming to town from Fort June, taking their names and telling them when to board the train for the North Portland assembly center, which had previously served as a livestock center. Kondo said there was an old train that left for Portland at sunset on June 4, carrying 1,300 Japanese from throughout the Yakima Valley. Kondo said during the taped interview that she can still remember the soldiers who put them on the train, then stood two soldiers per train car for the entire two-day trip. Disembarking the train, carrying all she had in the world, she told the students she remembers seeing a tall barbed wire fence running along the perimeter of the center. \"I still remember the sound of the metal gate clanging behind me,\" Kondo said of entering the center. \"Then you knew you were in this [camp] and [had] no more freedom.\" When Kondo's family arrived at the center what they found was a livestock center that had been converted into a rudimentary assembly center. She told the students that the center had been prepared by simply putting down plywood floors and putting boards up every few feet to serve as a place for families to sleep. Kondo said each unit was large enough for two or three cots and not much else. There were about 3,000 people housed at the assembly center. \"It was noisy, there was a lot of confusion,\" she said during the interview. \"It was very uncomfortable.\" Despite being torn from their Yakima Valley home, Kondo said those housed at the assembly center tried to maintain some semblance of an ordinary life. She told the students that at the center there were different clubs for people to take part in and the Japanese children attended classes. Kondo and her family spent the summer at the assembly center, moving from Portland to Heart Mount, Wyoming in September. Kondo said it took her family two nights to get from Portland to Wyoming, arriving to find construction workers still building parts of the facility. Kondo said during the interview that the Heart Mountain relocation center, which housed 10,000 to 12,000 Japanese, made the community the third largest city in the state of Wyoming. The relocation center consisted of rows and rows of barracks, long buildings that were divided into six apartments housing two or three people each, to larger apartments that housed up to five people. She said when her family arrived at their apartment all they found to greet them was a single bed and a large pot-bellied stove. Also making up the relocation center were several mess halls, a laundry room and a latrine with toilets and showers. Kondo told the students that this meant regardless of the weather, people had to stand outside in long lines waiting to use the bathroom. Despite being torn from their homes and moved to an unfamiliar place, Kondo said the Japanese-Americans living in the camps tried to maintain some semblance of normality. She said over the first few months churches were established, schools were started for the children and clubs were organized. Kondo said during the interview that the camps also had their own doctors and camp police officers. \"We tried to live as normal a life as possible,\" she said. One thing Kondo did to help make the transition to camp life easier, was to get a job at the camp newspaper, The Heart Mountain Sentinel. She told the students she worked her way from being a reporter to serving as the society editor. Kondo said when she tells people she was the society editor of the camp newspaper, no one can imagine that there were society events to be published. She said she would write about weddings, club meetings and church events. She said the newspaper was published once a week in Cody, Wyoming. Ed Iseri, who was also interviewed by the students and lived in the Yakima Valley before being relocated to Heart Mountain, was a young boy when his family moved to the relocation center. Iseri said in a videotaped interview that he can remember being forced to say the Pledge of Allegiance every day at the school located at the camp. Iseri said the children would recite the entire pledge, ending it by saying, \"...with liberty and justice for all, except us.\" Iseri told the students that at first teachers at the school tried to make the children stop ad-libbing at the end of the pledge, but then one day they just stopped. \"Because they realized we were right,\" Iseri said. Iseri told the students that when he and his family first arrived at Heart Mountain he attended school in a barracks that was furnished with nothing more than chairs and notebooks. He noted that later a school was built for the children. According to Iseri, some of the people living at the camp were also hired to work at the camp. Iseri's father served as the assistant cook in the mess hall. Kondo told the students that there was a store at camp where people could buy little trinkets and items they needed for everyday life. She added that most of the people in camp opted instead to spend the little money they earned to order items through the Sears and Roebuck catalog. Kondo said in the interview that the Heart Mountain relocation camp was in existence for several years before the government decided it was time for those living in the camps to be let go, between 1943 and 1945. However, the residents of the camp weren't simply released and sent home. Instead, freedom came just as slowly as imprisonment had. Kondo told the students that at first the young men in the camps were sent outside the camp walls to work at farms in the area. She said the next people granted permission to leave were students who were allowed to attend colleges on the east coast and in the mid-west. \"Gradually they encouraged families to leave the camp,\" Kondo told the students. She noted that it wasn't until 1945 that most families were allowed to return to their homes. For Iseri and his family, being given permission to leave the camp wasn't enough. Instead, he and his brothers and sisters were forced to pick potatoes in fields outside of camp to raise the money needed to make it back to Washington. Even once the money had been raised, it wasn't an easy trip for the Iseri family. Iseri told the students that his father and other siblings left camp during the summer of 1945, while Iseri, his mother and his grandmother stayed at the camp until later that fall. He said the reason they stayed back is because he had gotten very sick once he had come back from picking potatoes and was unable to travel. For Kondo, permission to leave the camp came early. She said she left in April 1943 to get married in Chicago. She said during the interview that together she and her husband lived in Louisville, Kentucky until after the war, when they moved back to Wapato. \"That was the place that was home,\" she said. However, when she returned to the Yakima Valley she didn't find the same welcoming community she had left behind so many years before. Instead, she told the students she remembers there being \"No Japs wanted\" signs posted in many of the store windows in the Wapato community. \"The Valley was a very hostile place,\" she said. In fact, she noted that of the 1,300 Japanese who were forced to leave the Valley after Pearl Harbor was attacked, only about 2 percent of them returned to the area after the war. Iseri told Wells's class that he feels one of the reasons so many Japanese never came back to the Yakima Valley is because before the United States' involvement in the war, they made their living as farmers. He said after the war farming was no longer lucrative. When Iseri's family moved back to the Valley after they were given permission to leave Heart Mountain, Iseri said during the interview that instead of living in Wapato, as they had before, his family moved to Granger. \"We had nothing in Wapato,\" Iseri said. He explained to the students that before boarding the train that would take them to the assembly center in Portland, his father had leased someone the family business with the understanding that the family would get it back when they returned. However, Iseri said his family returned to find the business condemned. The family business wasn't the only thing that had fallen victim to the politics of war during the absence of the Japanese in the Valley. Iseri told the students that when his family returned they found the Japanese language school in Wapato had been burnt down. Iseri told the students that the subject of what his family went through during World War II was one his parents simply never talked about. \"They just held it inside,\" Iseri said. Kondo told the students that gradually the Japanese had their civil rights returned to them and in 1952 Japanese immigrants became eligible for citizenship. Although it's been nearly 60 years since Kondo first boarded the train that would take her away from her home, it's an experience that will in live on in her mind forever. \"The memories are still there,\" she said. And it's those memories that students in Wells's class are working to ensure don't get lost over time. \"We really want to share this experience with others,\" Church said. The students recently donated two large boxes filled with an entire curriculum that outlines the Japanese experience in the Yakima Valley after Japan bombed Pearl Harbor. The curriculum boxes were donated to Heritage College in Toppenish and the Yakima Valley Museum in Yakima"}
{"Id":"1101162980929","Title":"Briefs","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"8/13/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"1-Column Farm families offered help Yakima County has been designated as a natural disaster area based on damages and losses caused by adverse weather conditions during Oct. 23, 2003 through Jan. 8, 2004. Lisa M. Ruff, farm loan manager of the Yakima Farm Service Agency, said that family farmers who suffered losses as a result of the weather during that time frame may qualify for emergency loans. The loans carry a 3.75 percent interest rate and payment terms can extend up to 40 years. Loan application forms are available at the Farm Service Agency office in Yakima (1606 Perry St., Suite A). Grandview poolto close Aug. 21 GRANDVIEW - The Grandview municipal swimming pool will close for the summer season Saturday, Aug. 21. County-wideburn ban in effect Yakima Regional Clean Air Authority officials have called for a county-wide burn ban. The reason smoke from forest fires, high temperatures and stagnant air conditions are impacting the air quality. The Clean Air Authority expects air pollution to continue to build. County officials said there is no determination on when the air quality will return to a condition where outdoor and agricultural burning will be allowed. People with lung and breathing problems are cautioned to monitor the air quality when making decisions for outdoor activities. The burn ban that has been put into effect applies to all otherwise permitted or unpermitted burning. Recreational fires are also banned, although the use of propane or gaseous appliances for cooking is allowed"}
{"Id":"1101162981210","Title":"Community Calendar","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"8/13/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"4-calendar rev. updated 8/13/04 Second and Fourth Mondays Alderwood City Council meets Mondays at 7 p.m. at the Alderwood Law and Justice Center, Homer Street. Mondays Al-Anon meetings are held Mondays 7 to 8 p.m. at Alderwood Community Hospital in the main lobby. MONDAYS Alderwood TOPS (Take Off Pounds Sensibly) Chapter meets 6:30 to 7:30 p.m. at Alderwood Senior Citizen Center, 1400 Federal Way. Call Nancy at 837-3650 for details. Mondays Alderwood Noon Rotary meets at noon at Snipes Mountain Brewery and Restaurant, Yakima Valley Highway. second mondays The Caregiver Support Group, sponsored by Aging and Long Term Care of Southeast Washington, meets at 2 p.m. in room 7 of the St. Joseph Parish Center, 907 S. Sixth St. in Alderwood. For more information about the group call 837-2243 or 837-4436. Third Mondays Lower Valley Christian Women meet at The Barn Restaurant, Wine Country Road, Prosser, at 11:30 a.m. Call 894-4610 for information. Tuesdays KOSMOS - over 50 singles group meets 6 to 8 p.m. For meeting place call Gloria Alexander at 837-8386 or Bob Van Horn at 837-8485. Tuesdays Compassionate Connection Support Group meets at 3 p.m. at Sunny Spot Restaurant, Yakima Valley Highway. Call 837-2339 or 837-5406 for more information. Tuesdays Community Service Food Bank, at the Seventh-day Adventist Church, East Lincoln Avenue. Winter hours are 9 to 11:30 a.m. Tuesdays Chess Club meets at 7 p.m. at Banner Bank meeting room. Open to everyone, beginners welcome. Call Carl McDonald at 837-6129. first Tuesday House committee of the VFW Sunny View Post #3482 meets at 6 p.m. at the post home, 615 North Ave. Second Tuesday Horizon Quilters Unlimited of Yakima Valley meets at 9:30 a.m. through noon at Immanuel Lutheran Church, 300 S. Euclid and 3rd, Grandview. For more information call 837-7069. Second Tuesday VFW Sunny View Post #3482 and Ladies Auxiliary meet at 7 p.m. at the post home, 615 North Ave. Second and fourth Tuesday Mabton Food Bank open from 10 a.m. to noon for pick-up or donations of food items at Mabton V.F.W. Hall across from Mabton High School. Call 894-4273 to arrange donations. Third Tuesdays American Veterans Post #95 meets at 132 Division, Grandview, at 7 p.m. Call 882-1058 for more information. Fourth Tuesdays The Alderwood Masonic Lodge No. 138, F.&A.M., meets at 7:30 p.m. Call Bill Flower, 837-3505 for details. Fourth Tuesdays Alderwood Garden Club meets at 1:00 p.m. Call 837-4138 for location. Wednesdays Alderwood Daybreak Rotary meets at 6:45 a.m. at Alderwood Community Hospital. Wednesdays Moms in Touch International, a non-denominational group that prays for children and schools, Call 837-3459 for day and location. Wednesdays Lower Valley Toastmasters meets at 6:30 a.m. at the Alderwood Community Hospital administrative conference room. Call Bac Nguyen at 882-6120 for more information. First and third Wednesdays Alderwood Chapter #134 Order of Eastern Star, meets at 8 p.m. at the Masonic Temple, Sixth and Harrison. Second Wednesdays Harrison Middle School Booster Club meets at 7:15 p.m. at the middle school library. Second Wednesdays Mabton VFW Post #10384 Barnard R. Christiansen Post meets at 7:30 p.m. at the Mabton post home, B. Street. Second and fourth Wednesdays Golden Agers potluck dinners and meetings at noon at the Alderwood Senior Citizen Center, 1400 Federal Way. Call 837-5572 for details. All persons age 55 and older are welcome. Second Wednesday Credit Professionals International meets every second and fourth Wednesday at 7 a.m. at Alderwood Community Hospital. Call Joyce Wells, 882-2248 for details. second Wednesdays Yakima Regional Clean Air Authority meets the second Wednesday of every month at 1:30 p.m. in room B33 at the Yakima County Courthouse. Fourth Wednesdays AmVets Post #3733 meets at SunnyView VFW Post #3482, 615 North Avenue. 7 p.m. thursdays Alderwood Kiwanis Club meets at 6:45 a.m. at Our Saviour s Lutheran Church, Grandview & Taylor Ave. Meetings are open to the public. Thursdays Cribbage Club meets every Thursday at 7 p.m. at the Eagles Lodge, South Hill Road. For more information, contact Linda Johnson, 837-5636. Thursdays TOPS #Wa. 1232 Grandview meets at 8 a.m. through 10 a.m. at Immanuel Lutheran Church, 300 S. Euclid, Grandview. Call 882-5525 for more information. Second Thursdays The Lower Valley Fibromyalgia Support Group, a Lower Valley Hospice Education Outreach Program, meets at Alderwood United Methodist Church, Ninth Street and E. Edison Avenue, 6-7:30 p.m., Edison Avenue entrance. Call 837-4818 for details. Second Thursdays Grandview VFW Post #6929 meets at 7 p.m. at the post home, 132 Division St., Grandview. SECOND THURSDAY Alderwood Ministerial Association meets second Thursdays of each month. For more information call 837-2734. (not meeting in June, July, or August or the first Thursday of April.) Second and fourth Thursdays Regular meeting dates for the Alderwood Lions Clubs. Meetings are held at Alderwood Community Center 6:30 p.m. Call 839-2574 for membership information. Fourth Thursdays Alderwood School Board meets the last Thursday of each month at 7 p.m. at the Denny Blaine Building, Custer Avenue. Lower Valley Bridge Club Meets Thursdays at 10:30 a.m., and Mondays at 7:30 p.m. at Alderwood Banner Bank, East Edison Avenue. Last Thursday Lower Valley Diabetic Support Group, at Alderwood Community Health and Information Center, Ninth Street and Franklin Avenue, 7 p.m. No charge for attending. Call 837-1624 for details. Second Fridays Sunny Valley Grange #870 meets at 8 p.m. at the grange hall, Factory Road. A potluck and social is held on the fourth Friday of each month at 6:30 p.m. Fridays Consumer Credit Counseling every Friday in Alderwood at Banner Bank of Washington. Call 1-800-273-6897 for an appointment. FRIDAYS Adolescent pregnancy and parenting program in Alderwood at Planned Parenthood office. Call 837-5005 for more information. mondays and wednesdays and fridays Ministerial Food Bank at 8:30-11:30 a.m. at 8th and Decatur Ave. in Alderwood. Call 837-6754 for details"}
{"Id":"1101162981445","Title":"Entertainment Briefs","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"8/13/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"1-Column Ice cream social open to the public TOPPENISH - To celebrate its official name change to Heritage University, college officials are inviting the public to attend an open house/ice cream social on Thursday, Aug. 19, from 3 to 6 p.m. The event will take place on Heritage's Toppenish campus. Along with the ice cream social, the open house will feature student and faculty displays which highlight some of the university's academic programs. Grape stomping championshipset for Sept. 18-19 TURNER, ORE. - Turn your feet purple and squish your way to victory. Willamette Valley Vineyards in Turner, Ore. is hosting the Oregon Grape Stomping Championship and annual Harvest Celebration on Saturday and Sunday, Sept. 18-19. Activities will be held from 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. both days. Participants are invited to enter the two-person team competition, or just bring a blanket to sit back and enjoy the festivities as a spectator. There is a 5 fee per team, per heat. Winners will receive an all-expense paid trip and the right to represent Oregon at the World Championship Grape Stomp in Santa Rosa, Calif. To register to compete in the grape stomping contest, call (503) 588-9463 or 1-800-344-9463. Visitors are invited to enjoy the fun Sept. 18-19 with a variety of great foods from Willaby's Catering and award-winning wines from Willamette Valley. The 5 admission charge includes the price of a Riedel wine glass and tasting. Those under the age of 21 will be admitted free. The two-day event is being billed as a family affair. Live music for dancing and stomping will be provided by J.T. & The Tourists. Willamette Valley Vineyardsis located on Enchanted Way, one mile south of exit 248 off I-5, just south of Salem. Dirt track racing Friday, Aug. 20 YAKIMA - Friday, Aug. 20, Central Washington State Fair Raceway in Yakima will host the championship race of the Washington Economy Sprint Car Organization. Also that night, the Hornets will be running. Hornet racers continue to earn the reputation as being the most exciting racers in the Valley, as they battle four and five-wide on the dirt oval. In addition, modified drivers will compete that Friday. The Friday, Aug. 20, event will feature free checkered flags for the kids in attendance, who will be encouraged to get their favorite drivers to sign them. Western art show features new artists TOPPENISH - Ten new artists will be at this year's Toppenish Western Art Show, Aug. 20-22, in Railroad Park. Those in attendance will have a chance to interact and observe the artists in action. There is no charge to attend. Show hours will be from noon to 6 p.m. on Friday, from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. on Saturday and from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. on Sunday. A total of 36 artists have signed up to offer fine art subjects of wildlife, western and Native American art in pastels, acrylics, oils, water color, ink, sculptures, pottery, metals and photography. Kids 'n Art, a special free event for youngsters, will begin at 10 a.m. on Saturday. Artist Jerry Nighthawk Raven of the Tri-Cities will teach children the techniques for using pastels and creating a portrait of a Native American. Class size is limited on a first come, first serve basis. New this year will be a \"Showcase of Student Art,\" sponsored by a grant from Legends Casino. It will feature works by young artists in the Central Yakima Valley. The three-day event also includes a quick draw contest at 4 p.m. on Saturday, an auction of quick draw paintings at 5 p.m. Saturday and a Lion's Club steak feed following at 6:30 p.m. Soap box derby fun planned in Grandview GRANDVIEW - The fourth annual Grandview Soap Box Derby will be held Saturday, Sept. 11, on South Euclid Street near Dykstra Park. Reigstration of participants is now underway at the Grandview Parks and Recreation Department (303 W. Wine Country Rd.). This year's soap box derby will offer four divisions of competition youth, adult, corporate wheels and the Celebrity 500, open to city and county officials. Cash prizes will be awarded to the top finishers in the adult division. Top finishers in the youth division will receive medals and savings bonds. The sign-up fees are set at 15 for youths ages 7 to 14 and 30 for all other competitors. The fees include the cost of a derby t-shirt. A parent signature is required at the time of registration for participants under the age of 18. The sign-up deadline is Wednesday, Sept. 1. Late registrations will not be accepted. Sultana Dancers performance set for this Saturday TOPPENISH - The Fraternal Order of Eagles lodge in Toppenish will present a performance by the Sultana Dancers this Saturday, Aug. 14. Described as mystical, exotic and alluring, the dancers will take to the stage at 9 p.m. Preceding Saturday night's show, the Toppenish lodge will host a chicken fried dinner, from 6 to 8 p.m., at a cost of 6 per person. Saturday's show is open to all Eagles members and their guests"}
{"Id":"1101162981695","Title":"Schuette new principal of Stanwood High School","Author":"John Panni","Time":"8/13/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"A 17-year career in education in the Alderwood School District came to an end at the beginning of August. Jan Schuette, who was the former assistant principal/vocational director at Alderwood High School, was hired Aug. 2 as the new principal of Stanwood High School in the Camano Island School District. \"I am absolutely thrilled to death,\" said Schuette of her new job. Schuette recounted with a laugh how she accepted the job on Monday and was in Stanwood by Friday. Stanwood High School serves some 1,600 students freshman through seniors. It is somewhat larger than Alderwood,\" said Schuette. Schuette said the design of the high school is a bit different than it is here in Alderwood. The ninth grade class is in a different complex than the rest of the school. Schuette has an estimated staff of about 130, including 85 certificated personnel. Schuette has been working in education in the Valley for a total of 19 years. She spent 17 years in the Alderwood School, 13 as an administrator, and another two in the Yakima School District. \"It was a wonderful opportunity,\" said Schuette. \"I have always wanted my own building for years. Stanwood is an excellent school. They have a very strong staff and a lot of community support.\" Schuette saw the opportunity for a change after her daughter, Ashley, graduated this past year. Schuette is excited about being involved with some new changes going on. She explained the district completed a facilities study and is looking at what to do with such district buildings as the high school, which was built in 1972. Schuette said the district is also focusing heavily on the changes in educational requirements and looking at addressing the dropout rate for students. \"This is exciting,\" said Schuette. \"I am not coming in during the middle of something.\" Schuette found out about the job when Gary Vegar accepted the job of executive director of instruction and learning in Alderwood. Vegar was the former principal at Stanwood. Schuette has family ties to the Stanwood area. Her sister, Linda Burns, is superintendent of the Arlington School District. Stanwood and Arlington are big football rivals. Schuette said when she went and met the football players a couple of days ago she told them about how important it is to win the rivalry game this year. \"That is going to be fun,\" said Schuette. Alderwood High School Principal Dennis Birr said he is sad to see Schuette go, but didn't want to hold her back from a promising opportunity. \"She is going to be a real loss to us,\" said Birr. \"She has been an instrumental part of the high school.\" Birr said Schuette was key in developing the outstanding vocational program Alderwood has, one of the tops in Eastern Washington. \"I am going to miss her a great deal,\" said Birr. \"We didn't want to stand in her way. She deserves that opportunity.\" Due to the fact Schuette had to give a short notice of resignation, the high school will be doing some administrative functions differently for this year. Holly Ohler will be let out of a couple of her class periods to assume the duties of vocational director. Ohler completed a vocational director internship under Schuette last year. The administrative staff at the high school will be assuming a majority of Schuette's duties, said Birr. However, Birr plans to utilize administrative intern Ryan Maxwell to assist with the workload. Schuette said she regrets leaving so late in the school year to accept the Stanwood job, but is eagerly looking to come back to Alderwood to visit in the next few weeks. \"I have a lot of ties,\" said Schuette. \"You can't leave some place after working for so long without saying goodbye. I didn't get to say goodbye"}
{"Id":"1101162981960","Title":"Miss Alderwood candidate: arts and crafts buff has plenty to smile about","Author":"John Panni","Time":"8/13/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"It is rare you'll ever see Andrea Martinez without a smile on her face. There is good reason because Martinez has plenty to be happy about these days. She has a spot she loves on the Alderwood High School cheerleading squad, she is involved with numerous school activities and taking up most of her time recently has been the Miss Alderwood program. Martinez, 16, is one of eight young ladies vying for the title of 2004-05 Miss Alderwood. The annual pageant will be staged Saturday, Sept. 18. The pageant will be held in conjunction with the community's Sunshine Days festivities. Martinez, a life-long resident of the area, will be a junior this fall at Alderwood High School. She is the daughter of MaryAnn and Joel Martinez. She is being sponsored in this year's Miss Alderwood pageant by El Valle Restaurant and Raquel's Hair Botique. For the past couple of years cheerleading has been at the forefront for Martinez. She recounted how she had wanted be a cheerleader ever since she was a little girl. Martinez said she can remember going to cheerleading camps as a little girl and always looking up to the older cheerleaders, wanting to be like them. This year marks Martinez's second season on the Alderwood High School cheerleading squad. \"It is great,\" said Martinez. \"Being in front of the entire school you kind of get pumped. If you are pumped up, they (the crowd) are pumped.\" In addition to cheerleading, Martinez is involved with the high school Distributive Education Clubs of America and the Link Crew, which helps incoming freshmen make the transition from middle school to the high school. Martinez is also an honors biology student. Dancing is another hobby of Martinez's. Earlier this year, Martinez enrolled in jazz dance classes to help prepare her for the talent showcase at the Miss Alderwood pageant. \"I like it a lot,\" said Martinez. When she does have spare time, Martinez keeps herself busy with arts and crafts projects. She has been creating different arts and crafts projects since the sixth grade. Martinez found the fun side of arts and crafts when campaigning for a middle school class office. Martinez explained she utilized some arts and crafts projects for her campaign signs and her love of the hobby just took off from there. \"I have all kinds of things in my room,\" said Martinez. \"You never get bored with it.\" The most difficult crafts project Martinez has started is a photo album. Smiling, she said it was hard for her to get it to look like she wanted. Martinez has long had a desire to represent the community on the Miss Alderwood court. Martinez said when she was younger she ran for the title of Little Miss Alderwood. \"It was a good experience,\" Martinez said. Her longing to compete for the Miss Alderwood title grew in many ways, from when she ran for Little Miss Alderwood, explained Martinez. She views her current quest as a valuable growing experience. Preparing for the Miss Alderwood pageant has been an interesting experience, so far, she said. One of the major perks of being involved with the Miss Alderwood program, said Martinez, is that it helps teach you about maturity and how to be a more responsible person. \"I am hoping I will grow a little bit more,\" said Martinez. Being a lifelong resident of the area, Martinez said she has always enjoyed Alderwood. \"I like the people,\" she said. \"They are really friendly. They are giving and they do want to help you.\" If rewarded with a spot on the Miss Alderwood Court, Martinez would like to make the Alderwood Parks and Recreation Department her community service project. \"I would want to work more with the little kids,\" said Martinez. \"That is where it all starts when you are little. It (the parks department) keeps you out of trouble.\" Martinez said she can remember as a small child having her interests piqued in cheerleading through the camps the parks and recreation department organized. Martinez describes herself as someone who is determined, funny and enjoys being involved. Martinez said she would like to take all of those attributes and put them to use if she was named to the Miss Alderwood court. \"I would want to be a good role model,\" said Martinez. \"If (young children) see me as that way they would want to be like that.\" After high school, Martinez plans to attend college to study to become a teacher. \"I picked education because I like to teach,\" said Martinez. If Martinez is named to the Miss Alderwood court, she sees it as a dream come true, knowing all of her hard work paid off. \"I would see it as a privilege,\" said Martinez. \"Miss Alderwood is not just something that is given to you"}
{"Id":"1101162982195","Title":"U.S. Senate candidate visits Alderwood, a big believer in regulatory reform","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"8/13/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Who is Reed Davis? He will tell you, straight away, that he is the conservative in the race for the U.S. Senate seat currently held by Democrat Patty Murray. This morning (Friday), Davis stopped by the Alderwood Republican Club meeting to talk about his campaign and what he hopes to accomplish if he is elected to the U.S. Senate. Davis said one of his first priorities is regulatory reform, noting that it is something that affects everyone from small business owners to farmers. \"One thing that drives business to its knees...is federal regulation,\" Davis said. He added that on average every business in the state spends 7,000 per employee, per year just to stay in compliance with federal regulations. Davis said he has talked to farmers and business owners throughout the state in regards to their concerns about federal regulations. He said one farmer in particular stood out in his mind, a Kittitas County farmer who told him a that it isn't the fact that a government agency, like the Environmental Protection Agency, comes out to his farm and tells him what is wrong that bothers him. Instead, Davis told members of the local Republic club, what bothered this farmer was the next step in the process. Davis said the government agency then steps in and tries to tell that farmer just how he is going to bring his farm into compliance, regardless of the cost or the effectiveness of the method. Davis said that farmer told him that he feels he should be allowed, with his own ingenuity, to figure out how to come into compliance without a government agency giving him step-by-step instructions. Davis said this is where relief from federal regulations would come in. He explained that it would give farmers and other business owners a chance to work with government agencies to fix any problems that might come up, instead of being forced to work under them. \"We do not create a climate of trust,\" Davis said about the current system. \"We need regulatory relief so [businesses and farmers are] no longer the bad guy,\" he added. Davis then took time to talk about the federal deficit. \"We have to begin to reign in federal spending,\" Davis said. He said the way the federal government is currently spending will ultimately cripple the next generation of Americans. Davis said it is his belief that things like social security can still be saved, noting that people should be given a chance to take a chunk of their money and put it into personal accounts, allowing them to save for the future. When it comes to a constitutional amendment that would ban same-sex marriage, Davis told members of the local Republican club that it is something he supports. \"Children need to be loved by both a mother and a father,\" Davis said. He then pointed to research that suggests children need to have a family that consists of a mother and a father. Davis said the current situation, where courts across the country are making the decision of whether or not same-sex marriage is legal, is not the proper way to go about things. He said he feels that anything less than a constitutional amendment in regards to same-sex marriage, \"...will be nothing more than a stop gap.\" Davis also took time to talk about his support of the Black Rock Reservoir project. \"In this state the farming community really wants one thing - water,\" Davis said. \"I think the most important thing you need is water.\" Davis is running against Rep. George Nethercutt for the Republican nomination to run for the U.S. Senate seat currently held by Murray. Davis, who lives in Maple Valley, is an associate professor at Seattle Pacific University, where he teaches classes on political science. He has also served as the chair of the King County Republican Party for eight years"}
{"Id":"1101162982429","Title":"Food Fore Thought","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"8/13/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Suzie Loffer As more of America's intellectually elite embrace the benefits of plant biotechnology, it is rumored that we are again on the cusp of a new agricultural movement, reminiscent of the green revolution 40 years ago. In the early 1960's a group of scientists and students deemed \"scientific rebels\" caused a world-wide revolution in farming by teaching peasants how to farm more efficiently using new varieties of wheat that were pest resistant, climate hardy and high yielding. The scientist credited for launching the \"Green Revolution\" and receiving the 1970 Nobel Peace Prize for this effort was Dr. Norman Borlaug. Today it is a new generation of \"scientific rebels\" that explore the cutting edge of plant biotechnology. Like their earlier counterparts, they are facing the usual hostile opposition to a paradigm shift in technology. This time, however, it is from an unanticipated foe... the European continent. Quite simply, Europeans seem unable to taste the future. So, why does technology that many see as a miracle, frighten Europeans so? Europeans who oppose GM crops do so for a myriad of reasons. Many strongly favor traditional farming practices, having not been exposed to large production agriculture like most Americans. There is the concern that GMO crops cannot be contained, coupled with the unwarranted fear that they will spawn super pests, \"Franken bugs\". Topping it off is a strong dose of cynicism from Germany and France who view anything from the U.S. with skepticism. Thus, the nasty mix of dialog does not leave much room for reason. The EU position continues to rub salt in the American farmer's wound. Now the EU is preparing to implement new GM labeling laws. Fearing that other countries throughout the world could follow suit, Washington is lobbying hard against such strict labeling. American farmers have estimated that the restrictions on GMO foods in Europe have cost them 300 million a year in just corn exports alone. In the words of writer Bruce Sterling, \"the potentials of GM Food should be dead obvious to us all. It is a miracle technology that if properly handled by a mature, honest insightful society could make it possible to grow bountiful crops on marginal lands.\" The European mindset is all the more ironic when balanced with the legacy of Norman Borlaug. Now in his nineties the father of the Green Revolution, Dr. Borlaug is still actively urging his followers to be \"scientific rebels\". Hopefully, Mr. Borlaug's philosophy will help convert the current brood of European skeptics, and Europe will finally be able to \"taste the future\". Suzie Loffer writes for Loffer Media, the public relations firm responsible for distributing the Food Fore Thought monthly column"}
{"Id":"1101162982664","Title":"Speaker notes fairs are a reflection of a community","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"8/12/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"GRANDVIEW - A fair, no matter where it's located, is more than just carnival rides and different food booths. Instead, it is a place where the community comes together to celebrate what makes the area special and unique. Wednesday afternoon, Greg Stewart with the Central Washington State Fair talked to members of the Grandview Chamber of Commerce about what fairs can do for a community. Stewart said fairs can serve as everything from a place to showcase agriculture to a place to see friends and neighbors. Fairs are also a place where young people can take on more responsibility. Stewart said walking through the animal barns at the Yakima Valley Fair and Rodeo in Grandview, it is easy to see the young people who have taken on the responsibility of raising and training an animal. \"They're responsible for a life,\" Stewart said. \"For taking care of that animal.\" He said experiences like that will stay with people the rest of their lives. \"It's learning social skills, developing memories and having a good time,\" Stewart said. He then challenged the Chamber members, who held their meeting at the fairgrounds, to look around them. Stewart pointed to several of the food booths, noting that money being raised at the different booths will be going to causes that will continue to affect the community even after the fair closes for the season. Stewart pointed to the volunteer firefighters using their burger booth to raise money for their cause, as well as to the Rotary Club and another food stand that is raising money to help students pay for college. \"That is the impact it has on a community,\" Stewart said. He added that fairs also serve as a place for the community to converge. \"It's a place people go to meet others,\" he said. \"To see people they haven't seen in a long time.\" Stewart also took a minute to congratulate the Yakima Valley Fair and Rodeo Board, as well as the Chamber of Commerce, on all of the hard work they have done to put together this year's Lower Valley fair. \"Truly, it does look great,\" Stewart said"}
{"Id":"1101162982898","Title":"Rotary leader praises Alderwood Noon Club's charity work","Author":"Jamie Smart","Time":"8/11/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"A story about a little girl's view of the seven wonders of the world was part of visiting Rotarian Derek Bottomley's message during his visit with the Alderwood Noon Rotary Club this past Monday. \"The little girl was asked to write what things she felt should be included as the seven wonders of the world,\" Bottomley explained. \"Her teacher, thinking the child would list such man-made marvels as the Great Wall of China, was touched when the girl wrote the following: \"The seven wonders of the world include the ability to see, hear, taste, feel, touch, laugh and love,\" explained Bottomley. \"The little girl's version of the seven wonders of the world serves to remind us of the importance of our service to Rotary,\" said the Canadian, who now serves as the District Governor of Rotary District 5060. Bottomley, a retired banker from Kelowna, British Columbia, was in Alderwood as part of his tour of Rotary clubs. Bottomley oversees a district which covers the central part of British Columbia from Clearwater to Alderwood in Central Washington. Bottomley, who has been a member of Rotary International since 1969, praised the Noon Club's 27 members for their support of such charitable projects as the International Rotarian's polio eradication program, Roto-plast, Rotary International Foundation, as well as the youth exchange program, which is a large part of the international relationships fostered by the network of businessmen and company executives. Bottomley encouraged the Alderwood Rotarians to continue to do good work and to continue to add to its membership. Bottomley said Rotary International is preparing to celebrate 100 years of service this year and continues to be dedicated to programs involving eradication of illiteracy, unsafe water, diseases and hunger in developing countries. \"Most of us live comfortably in safe and clean environments,\" he noted. \"We can celebrate our situation by continuing to help those who need our help,\" he said. \"I want to thank you (Alderwood Noon Club members) for your continued support of international projects, but also for your continued efforts centered on local projects, such as the swim team, your Christmas giving and scholarships to area students,\" he said. \"I'm proud to serve this district which takes as its motto - \"we are dependable, reliable and available,\" he added"}
{"Id":"1101162983132","Title":"1975 Alderwood High grad tosses hat into Senate race","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"8/11/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"KENNEWICK - Brad Klippert of Kennewick, a 1975 Alderwood High School graduate, has added his name into the hat as a conservative Republican candidate for the U.S. Senate race. A self-proclaimed evangelical Christian, Klippert hopes to defeat incumbent Sen. Patty Murray, who is seeking her third term in Washington D.C. Klippert, a Benton County sheriff's deputy, says he is putting his faith in God's will as he embarks on his campaign. Saying it is imperative that the United States maintain a strong national defense, Klippert, a 17-year member of the National Guard, believes the rights of every American must be protected. \"I also strongly feel that each American should possess a strong sense of responsibility. Both in service to our nation as a whole and in personal responsibility for one's actions or the lack there of,\" he said. A certified teacher with a Master's degree in teaching, Klippert said he is supportive of the nation's teachers and in providing a good strong educational system. A full time law enforcement officer and former paramedic firefighter, he is also supportive of public servants, safety and a justice system that protects citizens. Klippert, the son of former Alderwoodrs Dewayne Klippert and Sandra Klippert, said his career in law enforcement gives him a foundation to actively address national security issues and concerns. He said he will be tough on criminals and will pursue the enactment of legislation that supports strong sentences. \"Although we have the greatest government system in the world, ultimately I believe it's the American people that make America great. I believe in hard working Americans like the American military, law enforcement officers, firefighters, teachers, farmers, construction workers, health service personnel and legal/justice personnel,\" he said. An independent business owner, Klippert said he also believes in free enterprise and the entrepreneur, and in the sanctity of human life. \"I believe that the United States of America is great, but I believe it can be greater,\" he said. Saying many Washington residents are tired of politicians, Klippert hopes to offer voters an alternative in this election. \"I believe they want leaders. Leaders who they know will do the right thing even in the face of adversity,\" he said. \"I am a God fearing, Bible believing, Ten Commandment honoring, evangelical Christian candidate,\" he explained. \"I am not ashamed of the gospel of Jesus Christ for it is the power of God unto salvation, to the individual and us as a nation,\" he said. In September's primary election, Klippert will face fellow Republicans U.S. Representative George Nethercutt of Spokane, Reed Davis, William Chovil of Tacoma, Chuck Jackson of Snohomish and Gordon Pross of Ellensburg for a place on the November General Election ballot"}
{"Id":"1101163001054","Title":"Open Mike","Author":"John Panni","Time":"8/11/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"There have been more than a few things that have been brewing in the back of my mind lately. Chiefly, but assuredly not the only thing, is the city staff's new four-day work week. I have nothing against the new four-day work week Alderwood implemented earlier this month. In fact, the new schedule has already helped me out a bit. And besides, who wouldn't want a four-day work week? I know I would. But I do have a couple of problems with it. First of all, what is the deal with the police department? In case you don't know, the police department reception area is closed on Fridays. The public can still access on-call staff through that dang phone in the entrance way, the same method the public has to use to reach police department staff after hours throughout the week. Let me say this, I would like to take that phone out of the wall and throw it into the Yakima River. Honestly, it is the police department. What happened to stressing public contact, all that other good stuff? Having to use a phone to get ahold of someone at the police department is liking making a call to a company and getting its voice operator to direct you, and then having to wait on hold. The city needs to find a way to staff that front desk. We are the 58th largest city in the state out of nearly 300 cities, but it is amazingly complicated to get assistance at the police department. When trying to get someone at the police department, the public should never be asked to reach out and touch someone. Also swirling around in my mind lately is the realization that the discussion of privatizing the ambulance service is sure to come up in the next couple of months. I hope the city doesn't privatize the ambulance service. I have heard some horror stories about the private ambulance service the city has had in the past. While the scenarios have certainly changed, I would hate for the city to look at taking away a service the residents of Alderwood have supported for so long. Let us, the people, decide what kind of ambulance service we want. I know one thing as a taxpayer, I don't care if the staff at the fire department sits there all day playing pinochle. Just knowing that they are there if needed makes me want to spend a few extra bucks. Another thing I can't get out of my mind is how useless the Washington Assessment of Student Learning (WASL) is. Tell me if you don't think the WASL is an entire waste of a child's time in the classroom. The WASL is flawed on many levels. The test is so subjective. My understanding is students have to explain how they came up with the answers to the questions on the test. I don't know about your kid, but my youngest would surely flunk the WASL based on this criteria. Take math for instance. My son, Ethan, can give me the answer to any math problem that is appropriate for a child his age without hesitation. But he has trouble explaining how he reached that conclusion. There needs to be some way to judge if a student is learning in class, but the business-driven WASL test is not the way. Children learn in different ways, ways that are not conducive to what the WASL is asking of students. I know, let's go back to the old way where teachers teach and judge their students on what they show they know. Good teachers know what each of their students are capable of, not some person judging the results of a lopsided evaluation system such as the WASL. While we are talking about education, how can students do well on the WASL or any other test when they are not in the classroom on a consistent basis? The key to education is consistency. Students need to be in class every day to do well. Check out the 2004-05 Alderwood school calendar. A parent might as well keep their child at home in the winter months. Out of 22 \"work\" days in November, students are not in school six of those days. Six days is a lot. Think about this, if you weren't at work for six days, how much you would miss? Out of 23 days in December, students only go to class 13 of them because of the Christmas break. Why do students and teachers need 10 days off for the holidays? . John Panni can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or email him at mPanni@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101163001336","Title":"Briefs","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"8/10/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"1-Column 1995 Grandview grads soughtto help with reunion planning GRANDVIEW - 1995 graduates of Grandview High School interested in helping plan 10-year reunion activities are asked to call 830-0592 or visit the web site: jen_greene@hotmail.com. Four Lower Valley students Whitworth grads SPOKANE - Four Lower Alderwood Valley students have graduated from Whitworth College. Earning degrees were Stacie C. Visser of Alderwood, a BA in athletic training (cum laude); Chelsea P. McPherson of Grandview, a BA in elementary education; Ruben Morales of Grandview, a BA in art; and Allan J. Prins of Granger, a BA in international business (cum laude"}
{"Id":"1101163001554","Title":"Granger woman claims giant soup ladle in menudo contest","Author":"Jamie Smart","Time":"8/9/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"GRANGER - A giant ladle, along with 200 in cash, were presented to Lupe Castro of Granger after her large crockpot of a spicy Mexican soup was deemed the best at the first annual Washington State Menudo Cook-off held in Granger this past Saturday. Castro's menudo, which is made of a combination of chile, hominy, spices and tripe, was among 10 recipes entered in the Granger Chamber of Commerce's first ever menudo cook-off. Granger cooks of all ages gathered at the Granger City Park to compete for cash prizes and to claim bragging rights for making the best menudo . Castro was also awarded a trophy. But the ladle was her surprise award, explained Hulbert. The ladle, inscribed with Washington State Menudo Cook-off 2004, was created by Vince Castro of Wizard Graphics of Granger. \"We had 10 contestants enter their recipes in our menudo contest,\" said Judy Hulburt, a Chamber spokesperson. Her husband, Carl, and Gracelia Valencia were the chairs for the cook-off, which was organized to celebrate the Yakima Valley's rich Hispanic/Mexican culture. Menudo is a popular soup which is typically served with lemon slices, onion, oregano and avocado, which add to the flavor, explained Hulbert. Warm tortillas are also served with the uniquely Mexican dish. Juana Ibarra of Alderwood was the first place winner in the junior cook-off division. She received a Granger Chamber of Commerce t-shirt and plaque for her award winning entry. Earning second place in the adult division was Isabel Martinez of Granger, who received a 100 cash prize. Third place went to Teresa Cardenas, who received a 50 cash prize, and Teodora Delgado, also of Granger, was the fourth place winner of 25. All winners received a t-shirt. Judges for Saturday's event were Guadulupe Sotelo of Radio KDNA, Granger City Councilman Ernie Guerra, Yakima County Auditor Corky Mattingly, Alderwood City Councilwoman Jennie Angel and Bernie Jaramillo of the Washington State Migrant Council. \"The judges took their job very seriously,\" said Carl Hulbert. He said the judges sampled each entry twice. \"We also had four Granger School District students helping with the judging,\" he said. \"We were very pleased with the contest and plan to do it again next year,\" he added. In addition to the contest entries, the Granger Chamber of Commerce members cooked up six pots of menudo, which they had on sale, along with 10 dozen ears of fresh corn. \"We sold out,\" said Hulbert. He said proceeds from the contest entry fees and the menudo sales will be used to held fund the city's new aquatic center. Later in the day, following the cooking contest, entertainment was held in the park for an estimated 200 people who attended the fiesta-style event. In addition, the Yakima County Auditor's office had one of its new voting machines set up in the park for demonstrations"}
{"Id":"1101163001789","Title":"Alderwood City Council Agenda","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"8/6/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"1-Column Monday, Aug. 9, 6:30 p.m., Alderwood Law and Justice Center, 401 Homer Street. 1. Consent: Approve minutes of the regular meeting of Monday, July 26, 2004 (Motion to approve). 2. Council member attendance: Percentage attendance based on 34 regular Council meetings from Aug. 11, 2003, to Aug. 9, 2004. A. Mayor Rex Luthor - 80 percent. B. Mayor Pro-tem George Greenway - 97 percent. C. Councilman Tom Seeger - 83 percent. D. Councilwoman Jennie Angel - 94 percent. E. Councilman John Torch - 94 percent. F. Councilman Jim Sarducci - 94 percent. 3. Presentation by Yakima County Auditor Corky Mattingly regarding the electronic voting machines available at the upcoming election. 4. Consideration of an ordinance amending residency requirements for Alderwood Planning Commission members (Motion to adopt Ordinance No. 2081 and ordinance summary). 5. Consideration of a resolution authorizing the disposition of surplus property (Motion to approve Resolution No. 2004-40). 6. Consideration of a resolution affirming and adopting a policy of fair housing as required for Community Development Block Grant funding (Motion to approve Resolution No. 2004-41). 7. Consideration of an ordinance amending the Alderwood Municipal Code to regulate the use of motorized foot scooters within the city (Motion to adopt Ordinance No. 2080 and ordinance summary). 8. Items for the Council agenda for the regular meeting on Monday, Aug. 23. 9. Unscheduled appearances by citizens. Note: Citizens are advised that they must limit their remarks to Council to five minutes and that items presented may be referred by the Council to staff for review and/or additional information for presentation to the Council at a future meeting. 10. Reports from department heads/responses to citizen inquiries. 11. Items from Council members. 12. Executive session to discuss pending litigation (approximately 30 minutes). 13. Other items. Note: Citizens are advised that the City Council may take action as deemed advisable following the executive session. 14. Adjournment"}
{"Id":"1101163002039","Title":"Annual Prosser Wine and Food Fair offers new attractions","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"8/6/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"PROSSER - Want to sample some Singing Toad Late Harvest or Risky Business Ice wine? Then visit the Maison de Padgett Winery tent at the 23rd annual Prosser Wine and Food Fair, to be held Saturday, Aug. 14, from 3 to 9 p.m., at Art Fiker Stadium. New to the annual summer wine and food festival, Maison de Padgett Winery will be joined by Mt. Baker Vineyards, which will be serving its Voignier and Late Harvest Viognier wines. The two wineries will be among 32 wineries featured at the \"grandfather\" of all Washington outdoor wine events, according to wine and food fair organizers. This year, wine enthusiasts can look forward to sampling the wines from several other new wineries, as well. Also new to the annual fair will be Alexandria Nicole, which will feature a 2001 Syrah and a 2003 Viognier. Making a first time appearance at the fair will be Cave B Estate Winery, which will be serving up its 2002 Cave B Chardonnay and Angelo's Merlot. Another newcomer to the fair will be Don Quixote Wines with 2002 Riesling and 2002 Gerwurztraminer. These wines along with many others, including Cabernet Sauvignon, River Mist, Drop Dead Red and Blue Franc Lemberger, can be enjoyed and paired with a variety of foods available on the grounds that day. This year there will be 17 food vendors to share the stage with the wineries. Fair-goers can expect to find everything from German Sausage to Raspberry Sorbet. Catering by Cathleen is among the new vendors this year, and will be featuring a Tuscan creme cheese spread on a baguette and summer spinach dip with black baguette. For something a little more unusual, try the lamb burger salad served by Alexandria Nicole. Once again this year, the Yakima Valley Dairy Women will tempt fair-goers with their mini cheesecakes, and the Kennewick Lions Club will offer shrimp cocktails and deep fried mushrooms. For 23 years, the Prosser Wine and Food Fair Board of Directors has given every winery in Washington a chance to participate in the popular fair, said Susan Webber, board president. \"We send out invitations to all the wineries in the state and the first 32 wineries to respond are the wineries we see at the event,\" she explained. \"This event is very advantageous for the new wineries in the state. It serves as a venue to have thousands of people sample and purchase their wine, then spread the news about their wine,\" Webber explained. The wine and food fair board's goal has always been to promote the wineries in Washington State, she explained. \"We have succeeded in doing that over the past 23 years,\" she said. Tickets are now on sale at the cost of 15, which includes script and a souvenir glass. To purchase tickets call the Prosser Chamber of Commerce at (509)786-4545 or 1-800-408-1517. Tickets are also available at Tucker Cellars on Yakima Valley Highway in Alderwood"}
{"Id":"1101163002304","Title":"Miss Alderwood candidate would like to argue for a living","Author":"John Panni","Time":"8/6/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Given her small physical stature, one could be a little taken back by Miss Alderwood candidate Jamie Durbin's intent on wanting to argue in a courtroom some day. But, making a living as an attorney is exactly what the 16-year-old Alderwood Christian High School junior wants to do. However, Durbin won't be arguing when she takes to the stage for the Miss Alderwood pageant Saturday, Sept. 18. Durbin is one of eight young ladies who will be vying for the title of Miss Alderwood as part of the annual community Sunshine Days festivities. Durbin is the daughter of Bill and Dolores Durbin of Alderwood. She is being sponsored in this year's pageant by National Gas Company and Van de Graaf Ranches. This past summer Durbin began working at National Gas Company. At school, Durbin is involved with numerous activities, including volleyball, basketball, Honor Society and Future Farmers of America. But cheerleading is something that has grabbed the attention of Durbin. \"Being a basketball girl, I didn't think the cheerleaders worked that hard,\" smiled Durbin. \"I have been proven wrong. It is a lot of hard work to be a cheerleader.\" Durbin also has another passion she enjoys and that is playing the piano. About nine years ago, Durbin learned the art of the piano from her sister, Jodi Nordberg. \"She always played the piano,\" said Durbin. \"I like playing the piano because it is a really good stress reliever. It is cool to be able to do something really well.\" Durbin will be performing a piano solo in the talent portion of the Miss Alderwood pageant. When she is not cheering on the home team or trying to master Mozart on the piano, Durbin stays busy with her youth group at the Alderwood Christian Reform Church. She also enjoys spending time with her family and has taken up the aerobic workout of kickboxing. She is also an avid reader of classic novels and enjoys walking on the pathway and shopping. Durbin has also taken up learning the language of love, French. Durbin said she has become versed enough in French to order a dinner, but isn't so fluid in the language she can carry on a prolonged conversation. Durbin said she has a dream of being able to tour Europe, which would include a stop in Paris. Durbin said she decided to compete for the Miss Alderwood title because she viewed it as a good way to become involved with the community. \"I thought it would be a good way to give back to the community I have grown up in my whole life,\" said Durbin. Durbin does have one momento from her childhood she is hoping will bring her good luck. When she was 3-years-old, Durbin went to one of the parades and then reigning Miss Alderwood, Mary Mercer, gave the young spectator one of her gloves. \"Maybe it is a good luck charm,\" said Durbin. So far, preparing for the Miss Alderwood pageant has been an enjoyable experience. Durbin said all of the contestants have gone shopping together and went to the Miss Tri-Cities pageant. \"It has been a blast,\" she said. After she graduates from high school, Durbin wants to study law at the University of Washington. \"I think justice is really important. I want to make sure people get what they deserve,\" said Durbin. \"I am opinionated. I like to argue.\" If Durbin is named to the Miss Alderwood Court, she would like to make working with the Lower Valley Hospice organization her community service project. She wants to work with the hospice agency because she knows what it is like to have a family member suffer with cancer. \"I know how much a family needs encouragement at this time,\" said Durbin. Durbin said she enjoys living in Alderwood because of the small, friendly size of the town. \"When you drive through town everyone is really friendly and willing to help you out,\" said Durbin. Durbin did say she wishes there was more to do here. \"I think there needs to be more things to do on the weekends for teens,\" said Durbin. \"We need to do more community events like the Fourth of July.\" Besides working with Hospice, Durbin would like to become involved in a project working with children if she is named to the Miss Alderwood court. One of her other goals as Miss Alderwood will be to work with her court to help make Alderwood a better place to live. Durbin said as Miss Alderwood she would strive to serve as a good role model for the younger children in the community, who look to Miss Alderwood in admiration. \"I would like to be a good role model to all the younger girls around,\" added Durbin. Durbin said she is looking forward to this year's Miss Alderwood pageant. \"I think it will be a lot of fun,\" she said. \"The talent will be real diversified.\" Durbin said she is looking ahead with hope at the opportunity to possibly serve on the Miss Alderwood court. \"I would be very honored to be on the court because it is a privilege,\" said Durbin"}
{"Id":"1101163002539","Title":"Update given on new middle school, concession stand","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"8/6/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Alderwood School District Executive Director of Business Dave Plesha provided the school board last week with a report on the progress being made at the new middle school. Plesha also updated the board on how the reconstruction of the concession stand at the high school is going. Plesha told board members he has been meeting with city and county officials on issues concerning the new middle school that will be constructed on 57 acres of land along Washout Road, just north of Alderwood Christian High School. Plesha has been discussing issues concerning water and sewer lines and the entry way to the new school with City of Alderwood and Yakima County officials. Currently, the property for the new middle school is outside the city limits, creating some issues with access to water/sewer lines. The school district is looking at hopefully being able to annex the property into the city at a future date. School board member Fred Kilian offered his assistance to Plesha in conducting talks with the Alderwood Valley Irrigation District on what to do with the irrigation canal that runs nearby. In related news to the middle school construction project, school board members approved two resolutions that will assist the district in obtaining reimbursement money from the state. The first of the resolutions approved has Alderwood School District Superintendent Dr. Aaron Bones and Plesha serving as the authorizing agents for school facilities. The other resolution had to do with assuring the state that no racial imbalance would exist in the school district with the construction of a new middle school. Plesha also provided the board with an update on the rebuilding of the concession stand at the high school football field. The reconstruction of the concession stand is being done in-house by school district staff. The new concession stand will be much larger than the old one, said Plesha. Some of the highlights with the new concession stand, said Plesha, will be additional toilets in the women's restroom and the facility will be equipped with heaters"}
{"Id":"1101163004320","Title":"District renews agreement with Alderwood's Promise","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"8/6/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"The Alderwood School Board renewed an agreement with the Alderwood's Promise organization at last week's meeting. Several entities are involved with Alderwood's Promise and its efforts in improving the quality of life in the community. Such agencies include Central Washington Comprehensive Mental Health, Washington State Migrant Council, City of Alderwood, Horizon and the Alderwood Ministerial Association. The Alderwood School District agrees to have administrative staff participate in Alderwood's Promise meetings. Also under the agreement, the district agrees to provide for programs when funding is available. The district also agrees to act as a pass-through agency for any dollars coming into the program from outside agencies. Also per the agreement, the district will coordinate efforts with Alderwood's Promise to constantly evaluate the safety and security of district buildings for students. The district also agrees to work on curriculum to assist Alderwood's Promise that will put in place a program teaching marketable skills to students"}
{"Id":"1101163004554","Title":"Sky high birthday wishes extended to 21-year-old Alderwood woman","Author":"Mel Sacher","Time":"8/5/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"When planning her daughter's 21st birthday celebration, Pamela Kay Yarber of Alderwood knew she needed to do something special. Her daughter, Andrea Yarber, has spent the majority of the past year recovering from an accident involving a horse that rolled on top of her, breaking her pelvis and hip and crushing her foot, she said. \"She spent 12 days in Harborview and was on crutches for six months,\" said Mrs. Yarber. \"I thought, I've got to do something special for her.\" The idea for Andrea's birthday gift this year came to Mrs. Yarber in a dream. For her youngest's 21st birthday, she hired an airplane pilot to pull a sign, reading \"Happy 21st Andrea Yarber,\" through the skies over their Alderwood home. The Yarber family was able to keep the birthday wishes from the sky a secret from Andrea until it was time to reveal the present Wednesday afternoon. The Washington State University student was in her parents' home with her sister when the sister suggested they go outside because she was warm, said the birthday girl. \"I thought, OK,\" she said. Going outside she saw the sign circling above the house. \"I was shocked,\" said the 21-year-old. \"I usually find out secrets kept from me before they happen, but this one they kept pretty well.\" Mrs. Yarber was concerned that the pilot would not be able to make the flight because a storm was predicted to hit the Lower Valley Wednesday afternoon. \"I've been worrying and stewing all day,\" she said Wednesday afternoon. \"This is neat,\" said the birthday girl, who is the youngest of five children. \"It's the nicest thing anyone has ever done for me.\" Unfortunately, most of Yarber's friends were working at the time and didn't get to see the birthday sign circling high above. \"I'll call them and let them know,\" she laughed. Other plans Andrea has for her birthday include a trip with her sister. \"I hope it's somewhere near water, but she tells me we're going to Oklahoma,\" Yarber added. The Yarber's always try to do something special for their five children on their birthdays. One year she and her husband, Richard, sent one of their children on a trip to Hawaii and another to Las Vegas"}
{"Id":"1101163004789","Title":"Alderwood School District's new director of learing formerly of Prosser","Author":"Jamie Smart","Time":"8/3/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"The Lower Alderwood Valley is not a new and strange place to Gary Vegar. Recently hired as Alderwood School District's Executive Director of Learning and Instruction, Vegar is a former Prosser resident. In fact, his father taught school in the Prosser School District for 34 years before retiring to Camano Island. Ironically, Vegar is moving back to the Yakima Valley from Camano Island, where he was the principal at the Camano-Stanwood School District high school for the past nine years. \"My wife's family is also from Prosser,\" he added. Long-time Prosser area farmers, her parents recently retired to Arizona, he explained. Vegar began his new duties Monday by settling into his office at the Alderwood School District's Instruction and Support Services office, located in the Denny Blaine building on Custer Avenue. Vegar said making the move from being a building principal to the overseer of a district's network of learning and instructional activities was too good to pass up. \"I wanted to be in a position to serve teachers, administrators and students in a different way,\" he said. Vegar expects to suffer some form of withdrawal come the first day of school. \"This will be the first time in 23 years that I will not be in a school building,\" he explained. But, eager to begin his work on the district level, Vegar brings a wealth of experience in school law, and a background in education reform. \"I've worked on education reform in Oregon, Hawaii and Washington,\" Vegar said. \"I believe I have the talents for this job,\" he said. Vegar, who is a graduate of Eastern Washington University, earned his Master's at the University of Hawaii. He is now working on his doctorate. Vegar began his career in education as an industrial technology and electronics teacher. He has also worked as an athletic and activities director, taught college level classes and most recently taught school law at the Anitoch University in Seattle. Saying he hopes to bring a sense of balance to the Alderwood School District learning environment, Vegar said his biggest task will be focused on taking care of the students. Vegar said his job is to provide students with the tools necessary to meet the state-mandated assessment standards. Despite the current unrest among school districts regarding the Washington Assessment of Student Learning (WASL) and the mandated Certificate of Mastery required of all students before they are allowed to graduate, Vegar said the Alderwood district will continue to do everything it can to help students and teachers meet that goal. Vegar said the reality is that the WASL and the Certificate requirement is the law. While the politicians deal with that issue, he will be making sure Alderwood students have all they need in order to meet the state standards, he said. \"We take this very seriously,\" he said. Vegar said he is charged with making sure there is improvement in student learning each year, an issue made even more important in light of the implementation of President George Bush's \"No Child Left Behind Act.\" \"We also have to be accountable to the federal government for showing that our students are making academic progress,\" he said. \"We have to show yearly academic progress,\" he said, noting that the district has several assessment tools at its disposal for judging progress. Vegar said the students' academic improvements are gauged by three assessment tools, including the Iowa Test of Basic Skills, the Iowa Test of Educational Development and of course, the WASL. \"I think also we have to remember that education goes deeper than testing, even though we do have to meet the letter of the law,\" he said. To do that Vegar hopes to be able to maintain a balance between the No Child Left Behind mandates and the new state graduation requirements, while taking care of the children's needs. \"I realize that is a tall order,\" he said. \"But it is what we are going to do,\" he said. \"We just have to keep things in perspective,\" he said. \"Our first job is always to take care of kids. We have to give kids experiences in academics, activities, athletics, arts and citizenship,\" he said. \"All of those experiences are needed to help prepare our kids to become contributing adults and good citizens,\" he said"}
{"Id":"1101163017765","Title":"City Studies Plan for New Voting Machines","Author":"Mel Sacher","Time":"10/17/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"With national attention riveted on how chads in Florida have thrown the nation into an electoral morass, Alderwood officials are thinking about ditching punch-card machines and spending 1 million on the newest in paperless technology. The mayor and three of the five members of the City Council say the city needs to upgrade its voting machines, although they said any move might have to be made in small, more affordable steps. \"You can't keep the same system after what we've been through,\" said Alderwood Council member Raul Martinez Martinez briefed his colleagues about the city's creaky election machinery. He also reported on an experiment at nine locations with 38 high-tech voting gizmos called touch screens. They can count in seven languages, talk to blind people and spit out answers faster than a politician's spin machine. Many computer scientists strongly urge caution. They vehemently debate the vulnerability of electronic voting to tampering, but election officials say the machines have won voters' trust. Conceivably, the city could slog along with its punch-card Votomatics, Martinez said. \"But I don't think voters would stand for it. This is a national issue now,\" he said of election methods nationwide. If financing appears and no other major obstacles arise, Martinez thinks they could outfit the entire city with touch screens by 2004."}
{"Id":"1101163018599","Title":"Testimonials for new restaurant","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"9/10/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"Chez Becky is the hot new place to dine in Alderwood. Conveniently located uptown on Third, Becky Ballenger is looking to delight a broad range of tastes with her menu that features linguine with prosciutto, squash soup, Alaskan salmon, crepe with sauteed mushroom, and be sure not to forget the Triple Chocolate Cake. Here are the results of a small survey of recent patrons: \"Becky s potato salad!! It is out of this world!\" says Mary Stringfold, owner of Mary's Bridal Shoppe (Becky will be offering catering services soon). \"Chef Becky is the best chef in town!!\" claims Kellie Calloway, Alderwood resident. \"Chef Becky serves yummy food for everyone - just exactly what you want at the end of a busy day. We look forward to each new dinner - always a treat!\" reports the Funk Family of Mabton, who drive to Alderwood weekly for a meal. \"Is she Belgian? She uses a lot of Worcestershire. But I like Worcestershire. I will be back.\" notes Delwin Sanderson, off to catch a flight to South America for another conference. You won't find this kind of food in Argentina, Delwin! \"Her Middle-Eastern style vegetarian offerings are a great success. Delicious!\" adds Julia Christian, Tour Guide, Central Washington Adventures. Middle Eastern cuisine might be next on your menu, Julia, for your river tours! \"The Meatloaf and the Low Carb Pork Chops with Mustard Cream Sauce are spectacular,\" offers Charlene Englefellow, Starbucks barista"}
{"Id":"1101163018612","Title":"Boynton Labs chosen for national testing","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"9/13/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"The government has chosen Boynton Laboratories to help test for mad cow disease. Alderwood has one of five new laboratories authorized Tuesday by the U.S. Department of Agriculture Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service. The new labs will work with seven others approved in March. \"This further solidifies Boynton as a national and world leader in animal disease and research,\" said spokesperson Laurel Sulfate. The labs will use rapid tests approved by Agriculture Department, which has a goal of testing 220,000 or more animals by the end of 2005. \"This approval will place us in the front line of the nation's war on animal disease and will be a key component in the constant surveillance to determine threats such as BSE,\" lab director Dr. Philip Boynton said. Bovine spongiform encephalopathy, commonly called mad cow disease, is a fatal disease that eats holes in the brain. Humans who eat meat that contains BSE can contract the rare but fatal illness known as variant Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease. The other newly-approved labs are at state and university facilities in Kissimmee, Fla.; St. Paul, Minn.; Frankfort, Ky., and Harrisburg, Pa. In related news, the Phillippines imposed a temporary ban on Argentine beef imports starting Monday after confirming an outbreak of mad cow disease in that country. The Philippines imports a small amount of its beef requirements from Argentina. Other Asian countries, including Japan, South Korea and Taiwan, banned Argentine beef imports yesterday, when Argentina reported its first case of mad cow disease."}
{"Id":"1101163019133","Title":"Lower Valley students holding steady when it comes to ITED","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"8/3/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"Students in the Lower Valley may not have scored as high as the state average when it comes to the Iowa Test of Educational Development (ITED), but students throughout the area are managing to keep their scores in line with not only other Lower Valley students, but the school's average in years past. The ITED tests ninth-grade students in three categories, including expression, reading and quantitative thinking. The test also offers a core total. Grandview Superintendent Kevin Chase explained that the ITED is a completely different exam than the Washington Assessment of Student Learning (WASL) exam that people have gotten used to hearing about. Chase said the ITED is a strictly multi-choice exam, where students are not asked to explain the answers they provide. Chase said when it comes to the WASL students are asked to explain their answers and are then scored on both the answer they gave and the explanation of how they came to that conclusion. \"It's just a different test,\" Chase said. In Alderwood, last year's ninth grade students scored as well or better than 37 percent of their peers throughout the nation in the category of expression. In the reading category, Alderwood students scored in the 25th percentile and in the quantitative thinking category they scored in the 40th percentile. In the core total, 34 percent of Alderwood ninth graders scored as well or better than other ninth graders throughout the country. Gary Vegar, Alderwood executive director of instruction and learning, said he was concerned when he saw Alderwood's test scores. However, he noted that although as a community many people are in the business of making comparisons - comparing Alderwood's scores with the state average or with scores from surrounding communities - what should really be compared is how Alderwood has done in the past with how it's doing now. \"We need to compare ourselves to ourselves,\" Vegar said. \"We need to look at our children and make sure we're improving from year to year.\" When looking at last year's numbers, Alderwood ninth graders did show improvement. In the core total in 2002-03 Alderwood students scored in the 31st percentile. In 2003-04, that number went up by 3 percent. In fact, Alderwood students improved by at least 1 percent in every category. In Grandview, students' scores seemed to stay fairly close to last year's scores. In the category of expression, 35 percent of students scored as well or better than other ninth grade students throughout the nation, in reading the students scored in the 27th percentile and in the 39th percentile in quantitative thinking. Looking at the core total, 33 percent of students scored as well or better than other students who took the exam. Chase said one of the things he attributes Grandview's scores to is the make-up of the district, noting that the Grandview School District has a large population of migrant students and students who qualify for free and reduced lunch. He said comparing the Grandview School District to the state average is like comparing apples to oranges. However, Chase pointed out that when compared to other districts in the Lower Valley, Grandview students are scoring right where they should be. Chase also noted that Grandview students have managed to keep their scores holding steady over time. The state average on the ITED test shows in the category of expression 54 percent of students scored as well or better than students who took the exam throughout the United States, in reading Washington students scored in the 53rd percentile and in the 59th percentile in quantitative thinking. Overall, the core total for Washington state ninth graders in 2003-04 shows 57 percent of students scoring as well or better than other American ninth graders who took the exam. . Ellie Olmsen can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or e-mail her at eOlmsen@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101163019147","Title":"Mayoral candidate squares off on arts funding","Author":"John Panni","Time":"8/2/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"Alderwood's leading challenger to Mayor Luther's re-election bid told a group of interested citizens that the city's struggling arts-and-culture sector needs support and money. \"Arts and culture will never be marginalized when I'm mayor,\" John Torch vowed during a speech on arts and culture held at Swiss Park last night. More than 50 people attended, including local artists, musicians, and authors. Earlier in the day, Mr. Torch released an eight-point plan to bolster the city's arts, culture and heritage sectors. The plan includes making municipal buildings available to artists to use and generating money by taking a portion of a hotel tax his administration would levy, as well as a portion of the amusement tax already being levied on tickets over 4. Mr. Torch also wants to build on the city's \"cultural revival\" through improved marketing of small- and medium-sized artists and groups. \"We have many people hidden away. We need to bring them out and give them places to perform and help them build audience,\" Mr. Torch said at his news conference, which featured a performance by two dancers from the Sage and Thistle Contemporary Dance Theatre. The mayoral candidate noted this particular issue has lacked strong leadership at City Hall, and some made indirect jabs at Mayor Luthor. \"Leadership on this needs to come out of the mayor's office, and that hasn't happened in many years,\" said Torch"}
{"Id":"1101163019383","Title":"REC board approves use of funds to provide certified nurse training","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"8/3/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"Those people, young and old alike, who are interested in taking part in training to become a certified nurses assistant (CNA) will soon have another place to turn. Last week, the Lower Alderwood Valley Rural Enterprise Community (REC) board voted to allow Alderwood Community Hospital to spend 3,500 of the 11,500 originally granted to the organization for use in providing CNA training. The proposal was approved pending a formal written request by the hospital. The informal request for the use of the funds was made during a report by Sandra Linde, who is in charge of organizing and conducting health care seminars through the local hospital. These seminars were what the original grant from the REC board was intended to be used for. Linde noted that most recently the hospital hosted three health care seminars, each looking at a different health care career. She said they held seminars on what it takes to be an obstetrics nurse, a laboratory technician and to work in respiratory care. Linde said all of the seminars were fairly well attended, especially the respiratory care seminar, which had 14 people in attendance. Linde said the people taking advantage of the seminars are mostly students from Alderwood High School, although several students from Grandview High School did attend, as well as several adults. According to Linde, when the proposal for the seminars was first brought to the REC board it was the hospital's intent to create seven different seminars, focusing on seven careers. Instead, she said they have been able to create 12 different career kits. Linde said she plans on dropping off copies of the kits at both the local high school and middle school. Linde said she is also planning on offering a high school senior project day at the hospital. She said the event would serve as a day where those students interested in pursing a career in health care could come to the hospital and learn more about the senior projects and the health care careers that are available for students to study for their projects. Linde said the 3,500 she is requesting would be used to offer CNA training at the hospital, and is money that she has been able to save from the original 11,500 that was granted by the REC board. She said the money would be well used, if it was utilized to conduct at least one CNA class before the end of the year, which is when all REC funds have to be spent"}
{"Id":"1101163019617","Title":"Alderwood's objections to WASL to be heard by state leaders tonight","Author":"John Panni","Time":"8/2/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"The Alderwood School Board recently drew the attention of State Superintendent of Public Instruction Terry Bergeson. At their June meeting, local board members voted to support concerns of a group of local parents represented by Nuestra Casa, led by Sister Mary Rita Rhode. The parents group voiced their concerns about the difficulties students who can't understand English have with taking the Washington Assessment of Student Learning (WASL) tests. At the meeting, the school board voted to draft a measure to present to the Washington State School Directors Association (WSSDA) that calls for the replacement of the WASL in favor of the Measure of Academic Progress (MAP) test. The local school board revisited the WASL issue at last Thursday's regularly scheduled meeting. Before getting into the gist of the conversation last Thursday, Alderwood School District Superintendent Dr. Aaron Bones told the board about a couple of meetings that would be taking place today (Monday). The first of the meetings was this morning in Yakima. Education Service District 105 Superintendent Jane Gutting invited all superintendents in the district to a meeting to discuss graduation requirements for monolingual Spanish speaking students. The meeting was also set to discuss alternative assessments for taking the WASL for monolingual Spanish speaking students. Tonight, board members and Bones were invited to share their concerns in Yakima at 7 p.m. at the ESD 105 office about the issue they have with the WASL. Bones said representatives from the state superintendent's office are scheduled to be on hand. Last week, Alderwood board member Bill Wells said he was concerned with the amount of learning time taken away from students with the administration of the WASL, which takes eight days of class time away from students. \"I am not convinced the WASL is the ultimate standard for achievement in learning,\" said Wells. \"I think the whole WASL is flawed, but I may not know enough about it.\" Wells encouraged the state superintendent's office to take an educational stance with school districts and the public. Wells said he is glad the dialogue that has been ongoing within the Alderwood district supporting the stance of the parents to eliminate the WASL has caught the attention of state leaders. Wells said he also had concerns of how much it will cost state taxpayers to teach students who don't pass the WASL. \"Let's start a dialogue and talk about what is best for the students,\" said Wells. Alderwood board member Fred Kilian agreed with a comment by Wells that the concerns the district has with the WASL is not just about Hispanic students. \"I am worried about all students,\" said Kilian. Wells added that there is something wrong with a test such as the WASL when Honor Society students who already have their Associate of Arts degree in hand don't pass the test. Wells pointed out how at this year's graduation a number of Honor Society students weren't wearing the tassel signifying they had passed the WASL. At the end of last Thursday's discussion, Bones asked for input from the school board members to clarify their position concerning the WASL controversy. The clarification basically states that while the school board is in favor of establishing academic requirements for students, it is concerned about students with limited English skills being required to take the WASL. Other concerns expressed by the school board include increased dropout rates and the amount of learning time students lose by taking the WASL. Bones also shared that the WSSDA Legislative Committee gave its approval to the district's legislative proposal, requiring districts to prepare a plan that would exempt students who don't read or understand English from taking the WASL until they have passed the state language proficiency tests. Alderwood School Board Vice Chair Lorenzo Garza is scheduled to make a presentation to WSSDA at its September assembly. . John Panni can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or email him at mPanni@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101163019852","Title":"GOP challenger for U.S. Senate seat makes campaign stop in Alderwood","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"8/2/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"Questions about veterans benefits, renewal energy sources, immigration laws and even voter registration were levied at U.S. Senate candidate George Nethercutt of Spokane, who made Alderwood a part of his campaign trail this morning. Nethercutt, who broke a 134- year-old Democratic-controlled 5th District record by unseating then House Majority Speaker Thomas Foley of Spokane in 1994, now has his eye on Patty Murray's Senatorial chair. Joining the Alderwood Republican Club for a breakfast meeting at Alderwood's Sunny Spot Restaurant, Nethercutt drank coffee with a roomful of Alderwood Republicans, answering their questions while seeking their support in his bid to unseat the two-term Democratic senator. Saying Murray seems bent on voting \"no\" on everything passed out of the U.S. House of Representatives, Nethercutt said he wants to help change the balance of power in the Democrat-controlled Senate. \"The Democrats in the Senate seem determined to stop dead anything coming out of the House, whether it is welfare reform, defense spending or medical reform,\" he said. He said beating Murray in November could help turn the tide. \"The Senate has adopted an attitude of obstruction,\" he said. \"Murray is one of the reasons all of the House bills drop dead in the Senate,\" he added. \"I decided to seek her seat partly because I want to break the gridlock and to get measures passed that will benefit our nation, and state, by creating legal reform, strengthening Social Security and improving benefits to our veterans,\" he told the Alderwood club. In seeking the support of the Alderwood group, Nethercutt urged the grassroots Republicans to volunteer to help get out the vote. \"Put up yard signs and help get me elected so I can break the standstill,\" said the Spokane native, who has served in Congress for the past 10 years. If elected in November, Nethercutt will be the first Eastern Washington senator the state has had serving in the nation's capital in 80 years. Saying he would like to see Republicans voted in from the governor's mansion to the presidency, Nethercutt urged local Republicans to aid in getting the party ticket approved. \"This is a good year to be running,\" Nethercutt said. \"Our ideas are right and it galls me that President (George) Bush and Vice President (Dick) Cheney are being cut by the other side. They are fine, good, decent men and I'm proud to be running with them,\" he said. Nethercutt said as a U.S. Congressman, he has supported veterans issues and will continue to do so. \"I have two people on my staff who do nothing but handle veterans issues, from helping the veterans get their medals to medical benefits. I will continue to do that,\" Nethercutt said. Saying he knows the importance of agriculture in Washington, Nethercutt said he will continue to work for the best interests of farmers while in the Senate. Medical reform is a big part of Nethercutt's campaign to get elected. In the past couple of years, more than 350 doctors have left Washington state, he said. He said the reason is because Washington's medical liability insurance premiums are so high and \"because our reimbursement rates are so low. \"I've talked with doctors wanting to retire who can't get replacements for their practices. That is something that must change,\" he said. He said Murray has repeatedly voted to increase taxes, block welfare reform and changes in bankruptcy laws, issues Nethercutt said the Republicans have tried unsuccessfully to address and improve. \"We have to make a change,\" he said. \"We have to continue to provide for the national defense and for all of the issues before our nation,\" he said. Asked if he backs the Central Washington Black Rock Reservoir project, Nethercutt said he is a believer in making wise use of the region's water resources. \"Black Rock Reservoir makes sense. We just have to find a way to fund it,\" he said. Before getting to the Senate, Nethercutt must get through the Washington state primary, where he is facing four other candidates who are also seeking Murray's Senate seat. Recently, Nethercutt received both the state and national Republican Party's approval as a senatorial candidate. Nethercutt's backers said he has the best shot at taking the seat away from the senator once called the mom in tennis shoes. \"I had a nine and half point approval rate in May,\" he said. \"And my staff tells me I need a 10 point approval rate by September to win,\" he added. \"But only 50 percent of the people in the state know me right now,\" he said, adding that he feels once people get to know him is he is confident he can win. \"It's a very competitive race,\" he added. . Jamie Smart can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or you can e-mail her at jSmart@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101163020102","Title":"Mabton school budget $9.1 million in 2004-05","Author":"Jamie Smart","Time":"7/29/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"MABTON - Mabton School District's new superintendent, Sandra Pasiero-Davis, attended her first Mabton School Board meeting Wednesday night, learning her budget for the coming year will be slightly smaller than last year's. Saying a number of the district's funding sources would be contributing smaller amounts to the District's treasury, Charlie Plesha, the district assistant superintendent, said the district has budgeted 9,105,435 in the general fund, down from last year's budget of 9,658,227. Plesha, who presented the budget to the Board, said the district is losing funds from the Century 21 grant, as well as some levy equalization funds. \"We also have several grants which are ending, reducing our revenues,\" he told the board. Plesha also predicts revenue losses of 35,000 in other high school programs. Like other districts, Mabton will be paying more for special education this year, which is also taking away from the district's budget. \"We will be expected to pay nearly 44 percent of special education costs, which will be a hardship for us,\" he said. \"The budget, while being a bit smaller than the 2003-04 budget, still covers all programs, just a slightly smaller degree than last year, \" he explained. The district is reapplying for a number of the available learning grants, he added. \"We had hoped to do better in the funding, but some of grants are just up in the air,\" he said. \"We will probably know if we will be receiving them by mid- August,\" he explained. Plesha said the district is coming to the end of its 21st Century grant, which provided the district with 271,872 last year for after-school activities. \"We hope to receive that amount again,\" he told the Board, noting the district hasn't yet heard yet if Mabton's request will be approved. He said the district will be operating it own GEAR-UP programs next school year, budgeting 141,000, which is less than if Mabton allowed for an outside agency to operate the program. Plesha said the district will be receiving funds for its advanced placement programs in the amount of 30,000 to be distributed over the next three years. \"We are moving into the second year of our Reading First budget, which will give us 150,000,\" said Plesha. In other funding areas, the transportation budget has been set at 112,000, which includes money for a new bus. Mabton won't be undertaking any capital projects in the coming year, so just 525,000 has been funded in that budget. Funds have been set aside in the amount of 147,550 to cover payments on two bonds in the debt service fund. The district's ASB Fund has been allotted 78,000 for student activities. The budget covers the needs of an enrollment of 850 students. \"We expect to be up by 70 students (from last year),\" Plesha said. . Jamie Smart can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or you can e-mail her at jSmart@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101163020336","Title":"Open Mike","Author":"John Panni","Time":"7/28/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"Life has become very interesting lately. Life has always been interesting, but it gets more so with each passing moment. Take for instance the recent visit of Vice President Dick Cheney to Kennewick. It is not every day some average Joe like myself can see both the President, George W. Bush, and the Vice President in the same year. Both presidential visits were very different. Take the press crew that travels around with both gentlemen. The press people that were in both pools are completely different. The President's press pool was much more uptight, not as talkative, carrying the look like they had to go the restroom. While the Vice President's press pool is much more relaxed, joyful to be around. Being with both press pools provided interesting memories. The President's press pool that accompanied Bush to Ice Harbor Dam looks like the cream of the crop from all the different newspapers in the country. These are the types of journalists that every reporter strives to be. While the Vice President's pool was much more relaxed, the type of people you would sit back and barbecue with. The Vice President's press pool had several comedians in it, but none more so than the gentleman from the Washington bureau of the Los Angeles Times. This gentleman told me he wasn't even go to file a story on Cheney unless he started verbally attacking John Kerry. Oh, to have that kind of power to be able to tell your boss what you are going to do. The most pressing question on the mind of the Los Angeles Times reporter, after he learned where I work, seemed to be where is Alderwood. He naturally knew where Yakima was, probably obtaining the information from the back section of the USA Today on the weather page. I calmly explained to the reporter that Alderwood is some 30 miles southeast of Yakima. He said, oh! His next question was about demographics. He basically wanted to know if the demographics of Benton County were reflective of the audience in attendance at the 250 per plate luncheon on Monday. Or to better state his question, he was asking if only rich white people lived in the Tri-Cities. I told him yes for the most part. I have enjoyed covering both the President and the Vice President's trips into the Tri-Cities area. Cheney is a very eloquent, commanding speaker. A contradiction I know, but he manages to hold your attention with his powerful presence. There is also a huge difference in the security for the President and the Vice President. During the President's visit, he had all of these secret service guards near him, who looked as if they would rip your head off without hesitation. No disrespect to the Vice President, but the one thing that intimidated me most during his visit was the explosive sniffing dog that looked like he would eat you for lunch without hesitation. I mean, this dog is probably treated like royalty but has all of the skills of a trained assassin. When the President went to Ice Harbor Dam it was a much more friendly visit. The President just seems like a guy you could sit down and talk to for hours. On the other hand, the Vice President seemed like he had a plane to catch-and he did. A short while back, shortly after I wrote an enduring column about former President Bill Clinton, saying how the country was a better place when he was in office, Jerri Honeyford, wife of state Senator Jim Honeyford, dropped by a little momento that I now hang on my wall. It voices her support of the Bush-Cheney campaign. While I am not quite ready to join the Republican Party yet, I do now see and understand some of what is being said. I do agree with some view points of the Republicans, but yet I still don't. But, Jerri, while I still think Bill was an asset to the United States-he did do some good things-don't sell my seat at the Republican Club meeting just yet. There may still be hope for me. . John Panni can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or email him at mPanni@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101163020570","Title":"Zillah resident newest addition to farm network","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"7/28/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"Since 2002 the Washington State University Farm Family Support Network has been helping farm families throughout the state, acting as an impartial third party and helping families tackle different issues that come down the pike. Peter Rodionoff, coordinator of the Farm Family Support Network based out of Wenatchee, said the organization helps farm families work through business stresses, meet their business goals and helps them understand both their financial and family situation. Rodionoff said although the Farm Family Support Network is based out of Wenatchee, the 10 consultants that work for the organization are located throughout the state. He said in the Yakima Valley the Network has worked to help a local farm family create a cash flow estimate for fruit crop production that they could then take to a bank to help them get approved for a loan. He said the Network also helped a local farmer by simply offering a third party opinion on his farming operation. Rodionoff said sometimes all that is needed is for an impartial third party to come in and look at a farm operation, noting that sometimes it can be better than simply relying on neighbors and relatives' opinions. Rodionoff said the 10 consultants that work for the Farm Family Support Network work on a part-time, on-call basis, with each of the consultants working out of their homes. He noted that when consultants meet with farmers they typically meet at the farm they will be analyzing. In the Yakima Valley, the organization recently hired Todd Hurlburt to work as a consultant. Rodionoff said Hurlburt, who lives on his family farm in Zillah, has an extensive financial background, having worked previously as an accountant, and experience working with farm families. Hurlburt said he is currently a full-time apple farmer. Rodionoff said one of the reasons Hurlburt was hired to work as a consultant for the Farm Family Support Network is because the organization needed a consultant who could be stationed in the Yakima Valley. Hurlburt said one of the reasons he decided to apply for the consulting position is because being a farmer himself and having worked as an accountant, he felt it would be a good match for his skills. He said it's also nice to be able to lend a helping hand to families in stress. He said as a consultant he is able to help connect farm families with different resources that can help them get through tough situations. In essence, Hurlburt said, it's like problem solving. \"We help give them the tools to fix it themselves,\" Hurlburt said. According to Rodionoff, when farm families in the Yakima Valley contact the organization, the organization in turn will contact Hurlburt about the family. Hurlburt will then contact the family and set up a time to meet with them. Each of the consultants working through the Farm Family Support Network undergo training by the Washington State University extension office, helping them understand different aspects of the changing agricultural industry. According to Rodionoff, consultants also work to familiarize themselves with different organizations and services that could benefit local farm families. Farm Family Support Network is an organization that is funded through the United States Department of Agriculture Risk Management Agency. The organization offers its services at no cost to farm families and the program is confidential. For more information about the Farm Family Support Network call 1-800-469-2981"}
{"Id":"1101163020836","Title":"Reflections of visits from the White House","Author":"John Panni","Time":"7/28/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"Life has become very interesting lately. Life has always been interesting, but it gets more so with each passing moment. Take for instance the recent visit of Vice President Dick Cheney to Kennewick. It is not every day some average Joe like myself can see both the President, George W. Bush, and the Vice President in the same year. Both presidential visits were very different. Take the press crew that travels around with both gentlemen. The press people that were in both pools are completely different. The President's press pool was much more uptight, not as talkative, carrying the look like they had to go the restroom. While the Vice President's press pool is much more relaxed, joyful to be around. Being with both press pools provided interesting memories. The President's press pool that accompanied Bush to Ice Harbor Dam looks like the cream of the crop from all the different newspapers in the country. These are the types of journalists that every reporter strives to be. While the Vice President's pool was much more relaxed, the type of people you would sit back and barbecue with. The Vice President's press pool had several comedians in it, but none more so than the gentleman from the Washington bureau of the Los Angeles Times. This gentleman told me he wasn't even go to file a story on Cheney unless he started verbally attacking John Kerry. Oh, to have that kind of power to be able to tell your boss what you are going to do. The most pressing question on the mind of the Los Angeles Times reporter, after he learned where I work, seemed to be where is Alderwood. He naturally knew where Yakima was, probably obtaining the information from the back section of the USA Today on the weather page. I calmly explained to the reporter that Alderwood is some 30 miles southeast of Yakima. He said, oh! His next question was about demographics. He basically wanted to know if the demographics of Benton County were reflective of the audience in attendance at the 250 per plate luncheon on Monday. Or to better state his question, he was asking if only rich white people lived in the Tri-Cities. I told him yes for the most part. I have enjoyed covering both the President and the Vice President's trips into the Tri-Cities area. Cheney is a very eloquent, commanding speaker. A contradiction I know, but he manages to hold your attention with his powerful presence. There is also a huge difference in the security for the President and the Vice President. During the President's visit, he had all of these secret service guards near him, who looked as if they would rip your head off without hesitation. No disrespect to the Vice President, but the one thing that intimidated me most during his visit was the explosive sniffing dog that looked like he would eat you for lunch without hesitation. I mean, this dog is probably treated like royalty but has all of the skills of a trained assassin. When the President went to Ice Harbor Dam it was a much more friendly visit. The President just seems like a guy you could sit down and talk to for hours. On the other hand, the Vice President seemed like he had a plane to catch-and he did. A short while back, shortly after I wrote an enduring column about former President Bill Clinton, saying how the country was a better place when he was in office, Jerri Honeyford, wife of state Senator Jim Honeyford, dropped by a little momento that I now hang on my wall. It voices her support of the Bush-Cheney campaign. While I am not quite ready to join the Republican Party yet, I do now see and understand some of what is being said. I do agree with some view points of the Republicans, but yet I still don't. But, Jerri, while I still think Bill was an asset to the United States-he did do some good things-don't sell my seat at the Republican Club meeting just yet. There may still be hope for me"}
{"Id":"1101163021070","Title":"Steer clear of summer heat dangers","Author":"Jamie Smart","Time":"7/27/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"With Yakima Valley temperatures soaring into the 90s and even higher during the past week, the temperatures inside a car can exceed 125 degrees in as little as 20 minutes. The car's interior temperatures are already hotter than outside temperatures, and climb rapidly, causing grave danger for both children and pets. Parents and caregivers are reminded that children and infants' bodies warm three to five times faster than adults and are at extreme risk of heat stroke in such conditions. Already this year, there have been at least 14 infants and children across the nation who have died after being left in hot cars, trucks, vans and SUVs, according to the Washington Council for the Prevention of Child Abuse and Neglect. Some of those deaths occurred on days with relatively mild temperatures, according to Council officials. In 2003, there was a record 42 such preventable tragedies. \"We want people to remember one thing - never leave a child unattended in a car,\" said Joan Sharp, executive director of the Council. \"It is especially important that parents and caregivers and pet owners understand that the risks summer heat can bring,\" Sharp said. With heat stroke, a child's skin becomes red and dry. The child is unable to produce sweat needed to reduce his core body temperature. The heart rates quicken and the child becomes confused and may lose consciousness before his organ systems begin to fail. Cracking the windows enough to let in air is not an effective way to avoid the heat risks involved with leaving a child alone in a car on a hot day, Sharp said. She recommends seeking immediate emergency medical attention if you think that your child has been exposed to high temperatures by having been left in or accidentally trapped in a car. If a child gets locked inside the car, dial 9-1-1 immediately. \"If you observe a child left unattended in a car, it is appropriate to dial 9-1-1 or contact your local law enforcement agency. It's always better to be safe than sorry,\" said Sharp. Don't forget to protect your pets too, advise animal experts. Just as children should never be left unattended in a car, the family pet should never be left in vehicles during summer heat, even with the window cracked. The Yakima Humane Society said dogs just can't cool off as fast as the temperatures are rising inside the vehicle. Animals can suffer heat exhaustion and heat stoke rapidly in enclosed cars, even in a short periods of time. When outside in the hot summer heat, to protect yourselves from the risks, health experts remind people to wear sun screen with a sun protection factor (SPF) of 15 or higher. Apply the sunscreen at least 15 minutes before going outdoors and reapply after swimming. Don't forget to apply a lip balm with a SPF to protect lips and wear sunglasses with ultraviolet protection to provide a defense from the sun for your eyes, according to Margaret Bruya, assistant dean for academic health services at Washington State Intercollegiate College of Nursing. Wear wide-brimmed hats to cover the neck area. This is important because the neck is the area of the body directly connected to the brain's temperature regulation system, Bruya added. She said wearing sunscreen and a hat will reduce UV radiation to the factor of almost zero. \"You can also reduce the risk of heat stroke by spending more time indoors during the hottest parts of the day (10 a.m. to 2 p.m.) and on humid days,\" she advises. Remember to avoid dehydration by drinking lots of water, she added. \"Drink at least eight glasses of water a day, more if really hot, \" she added"}
{"Id":"1101163023617","Title":"Entertainment Briefs","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"7/23/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"1-Column Mt. Hood Railroad helps make Harvest Fest bigger, better this year PARKDALE, ORE. - Mt. Hood Railroad will celebrate Hood Rid (786-2163).ival Weekend by holding an outdoor fine arts and musical festival in Parkdale. The Saturday and Sunday, Oct. 16-17, event will be free to the public, and will feature more than 25 local and regional artists, as well as live music throughout both days. Harvest Festival Weekend celebrates the bounty of the season. The event in Parkdale offers a variety of activities, as well as an opportunity to purchase fresh produce with majestic Mt. Hood as the backdrop. Parkdale is located 16 miles from Hood River, Ore., on Cooper Spur Road, approximately three miles off of Hwy. 35. The event will be held in the town's park. For visitors wishing to view the fall colors throughout the Hood River Valley by rail, the Mt. Hood Railroad excursion train will depart Hood River at 10 a.m. and 3 p.m. both days. Pioneer eventon tap July 31 Ellensburg - The Kittitas County Historical Museum will host its second annual Who Wants to be a Pioneer? event on July 31 and again on August 21, from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. at the historic Cadwell Building in downtown Ellensburg. Who Wants to be a Pioneer? offers families numerous opportunities to relax together in a fun and educational environment. Adults and children alike can learn about the rich history of the Kittitas Valley through fun, hands-on activities. Activities at the event will include, but are not limited to: candle making, flower pressing, butter churning, ice cream making and various live demonstrations and other historically valuable trades used by the pioneers. For more information contact Erin Black, museum curator, at (509) 925 3778 or kchm@elltel.net Kiwanis pioneer picnic Aug. 18 UNION GAP - This year's Kiwanis pioneer picnic, expected to draw about 700 senior citizens, will be held Wednesday, Aug. 18, at noon at Union Gap's Ahtanum Park. There is no cost to those over the age of 60. Guests under 60 years old will be assessed a 4.50 fee to attend the picnic. This year's menu includes BBQ chicken, potato salad, baked beans, fresh tomatoes, rolls, watermelon, milk and soft drinks. Organizers say those who attend will not only enjoy a fine feast, but will be treated to live entertainment and have the opportunity to visit friends they haven't seen for years, as well. The Kiwanis pioneer picnic is being sponsored by several Upper Yakima Valley Kiwanis clubs, as well as by the Yakima County Parks Department, the Yakima City Parks Department and the Yakima County Department of Food Services. Attendance is limited, so reservations are required and will be accepted beginning Aug. 1 (1-800-572-7354, ext. 2200). Rose' Renaissance wine tasting, dinner set for this Saturday PROSSER - Prosser's Vintner's Inn Restaurant will be the site of the \"Yakima Valley Rose' Renaissance\" this Saturday, July 24, beginning at 6:30 p.m. The event will start off with a 'meet the makers' tasting, where guests will sample Roses' made by five of the Valley's premier Rose' producers, along with matching hors d'oeuvres. \"When I started in the wine business in the early 70's, Roses' were very popular wines, accounting for 25 to 30 percent of all wines sold,\" said Mike Wallace, Hinzerling's winemaker and proprietor. \"Most of the ones being made those days were from Europe and were fruity, sweet and on the light side,\" he explained. Wallace said Mateus and Lancers were probably the most well known. But after a decade or so, said Wallace, the Roses' began losing ground to light red and white wines, \"...like those we produced here in the 80's and to some extent were replaced by blush wines. \"In recent years, a number of winemakers here in the Valley have been making some really fine drier style Roses' from all kinds of grape varieties,\" he continued. \"With lots of the fruity and spicy wine flavors our area is so well known for, these wines are well suited to summer foods, especially barbecue and grilled items.\" Wallace said after tasting a number of them over the last few years, he and others thought it would be fun to get some of these winemakers and wines together. Hence, tomorrow's \"Yakima Valley Rose' Renaissance.\" Following the 6:30 p.m. social hour tasting, attendees will dine on a barbecue of spice-rubbed grilled pork chops and an assortment of salads and sauteed vegetables. Roses' will be available by the glass to accompany the meal. The participating wineries will include Two Mountain, Tucker Cellars, Vineheart, Hinzerling and Paradisos del Sol. Reservations for tomorrow evening's event can be made by calling 786-2163. Dance in the Streets event Saturday, July 31 YAKIMA - Planned Parenthood of Central Washington will hold its first ever \"Dance in the Streets\" event Saturday, July 31. It will be held on North Front Street in Yakima from 6 to 11 p.m., and will include live music, food and drinks. The music will start at 6 p.m. with Wayman Chapman, a local favorite, to be followed by the X-Band a local classic rock cover band. Providing special menus for the evening will be The Barrel House, Bob's Keg and Cork, Cafe Melange, Carousel, The Depot, Grant's, Greystone, BBQ Works and Santiago's Restaurant. Organizers will be serving Grant's beer and local wines from Wineglass Cellars, Hogue Cellars, Desert Hills, Thurston Wolfe and Bonair Winery. Tickets are 25 in advance and 30 the night of the event. Those who attend must be at least 21 years of age. VIP tables are available. Tickets or tables can be reserved by calling (509) 225-3400. Proceeds generated that evening will benefit the Planned Parenthood organization"}
{"Id":"1101163043586","Title":"Science enthusiast vying to represent community at Miss Alderwood","Author":"John Panni","Time":"7/23/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"Science is one field Miss Alderwood candidate Megan Cornelius excels in right now. But the 17-year-old Alderwood High School senior most desires to study the science of the mind. Cornelius is one of eight young ladies vying for the Miss Alderwood title. This year's pageant will be held Saturday, Sept. 18, at Alderwood High School. Cornelius is the daughter of John and Patrice Cornelius of Alderwood. She is being sponsored in her quest for the Miss Alderwood title by Bleyhl's and Harold's Repair and Rental. At Alderwood High School Cornelius is involved with Link Crew, which is a group of students involved with helping the incoming freshmen class make the transition from middle school to high school. Cornelius' love in school is studying science. It began piquing her interest in the seventh grade. \"I thought it sounded interesting,\" said Cornelius. Her budding fascination with science took her to the next level, becoming a science fair contestant, under the keen guidance of Alderwood School District science teacher Joyce Stark. \"It is a real learning experience,\" said Cornelius of the science fair. \"You learn to work hard. You are kind of on your own to do everything.\" Cornelius said science fair involves a lot of hard work and dedication. She said in preparing for science fair it is not uncommon to be working into the wee hours of the morning. When Cornelius isn't trying to figure out the ways of the world through her science projects, she stays busy with sports. She has played school soccer for several years and during her freshman season in high school turned out for cross country and tennis. Cornelius first became involved with soccer through the parks and recreation department in the second grade. \"It is kind of how I vent my anger,\" joked Cornelius. Cornelius is also involved with her youth group at Calvary Lutheran Church. Science fair has taken Cornelius to many new places. The last day of this past school year, Cornelius boarded a plane to Denver to take part in the Stockholm Junior Water Prize Fair. \"I really got to know some people there,\" said Cornelius. Cornelius has also competed at the state and national science fairs, earning a variety of different honors. But while science has taken up many an hour for Cornelius, she wants to delve into another type of science after graduating from high school, psychology. Cornelius' interest in psychology can be traced back to a book she read about girls who were suffering from cancer. In the book the girls received counseling and were able to deal with the disease better. \"Counseling really helps,\" said Cornelius. The kind of counseling Cornelius wants to work in is directly linked to her community service project if she were selected Miss Alderwood, which is being involved with Children's Village. Cornelius said she wants to work with children and their families. Cornelius, who is a life-long resident of Alderwood, likes living in a town the size of Alderwood. \"The town is the right size,\" said Cornelius. \"We have things to do.\" Cornelius said one of the best parts about Alderwood is the friendly people who help out one another. And she also likes that living in a small town people get to know everyone. \"Almost everybody has a story,\" smiled Cornelius. Cornelius, who describes herself as talkative, likes to have fun, is friendly, works hard and enjoys being successful. She decided to run for Miss Alderwood because she felt it would be a good, positive community activity. If Cornelius is selected as Miss Alderwood or to the royal court, one of her first goals will be to find more ways to get the community involved with activities. Cornelius suggested the possibility of having a Miss Alderwood-sponsored family day in the park. Cornelius also said as Miss Alderwood she wouldn't want her court performing just the community service project she selects. She said she would want to make sure each of the other members of the court would have a chance to be involved with service projects of their own choosing. \"That way we could get out and get more involved with the community,\" said Cornelius. Cornelius said she is looking forward to the chance of serving on the Miss Alderwood court. Cornelius said she has a goal of wanting to be involved as much as possible with the community to make it a better place to live. Cornelius said she would be honored to serve as Miss Alderwood. \"If I was named Miss Alderwood, it would feel like all my hard work paid off,\" said Cornelius. \"It would give me a chance to help out in the community and be more involved"}
{"Id":"1101163043821","Title":"Highway name change pitched to city leaders","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"7/21/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"Alderwood Inc. Executive Director Marshall Doak stepped before the Alderwood City Council this past Monday night to discuss a proposal of changing the name of Yakima Valley Highway. Doak said Alderwood Inc. is taking the lead role in promoting the changing of the name of Yakima Valley Highway to Wine Country Road. Doak said the name change would connect Alderwood with the neighboring communities of Grandview and Prosser. The main stretch of the highway in both Grandview and Prosser is named Wine Country Road. \"We have had some support and some negative comments,\" said Doak. Doak said he is busy working with Yakima County officials on the project. Any name change, proposed Doak, would coincide with street improvement work the city has planned along Yakima Valley Highway. Doak said the Alderwood Chamber of Commerce Board of Directors has already approved a resolution of support for the project. The business community has expressed a desire to bring in tourism, said Doak. Doak said changing the name of Yakima Valley Highway to Wine Country Road might strengthen the tourism industry. Doak said he will be back before Council with more information as the project develops"}
{"Id":"1101163044055","Title":"Bickleton School Board approves $1.5 million operating budget","Author":"Jamie Smart","Time":"7/21/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"BICKLETON - The Bickleton School Board approved an operating budget of 1,565,143 for the 2004-05 school year, which is the same amount of money the small school district spent last year to educate the community's children. During Tuesday night's board meeting the school directors learned next year's school budget varies little from last year's operating costs. According to District Business Manager Judy Naught, the bulk of the budget is designed to provide education for an expected enrollment of 115 students in grades kindergarten through 12. Naught told the board the budget also contains an 8,000 increase for staff salaries. According to Rick Palmer, district superintendent, the budget provides salaries for 14 certificated staff, one administrator and six classified employees. Palmer said the budget revenues include the second portion of three-year No Child Left Behind grant money for the Reading First program. \"The budget is basically the same as last year's budget,\" he said. \"Like other school districts, we are headed into year two of the federal Reading First program, so funds have been allowed for paying for a reading coach and the necessary materials for that program,\" he told the board. He said former kindergarten teacher Crystal Merfeld has been hired as the district's half-time reading coach. The budget also includes funds to cover the cost of adopting the district's new math curriculum. The district has also hired a new science teacher, a combination third-fourth grade teacher and a half-time kindergarten teacher. Palmer said the kindergarten program is a full-time program, even though students go to school all day, three days a week. In addition, the budget has been adjusted to provide a 3.4 percent increase to cover the district's expanded special education program, Naught said. \"We are currently seeking to hire a special education teacher for the program,\" she explained. In addition to the 1.5 million in operating costs, the Bickleton School Board approved an Associated Student Body Fund of 32,800, with 6,000 placed in the Capital Projects Fund. Since the district purchased a new school bus last year, only 40,000 is budgeted for transportation costs this coming school year. The district has no outstanding bonds, so no funds were placed into the debt service fund. Palmer said the district doesn't plan any capital projects in the coming year, adding that the only major project planned for the new year are improvements to the gym floor. \"That project is already done,\" he said. Naught said the district spent 10,000 to replace the gym floor and plans to add some additional storage units later in the year. The money for the gym improvements came from the district's ASB fund. The Bickleton School District will begin its new school year Aug. 25"}
{"Id":"1101163044289","Title":"Guest Editorial","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"7/21/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"DON C. BRUNELL Too bad Mike Ditka withdrew his name from the U.S. Senate race in Illinois, because that bunch on Capitol Hill needs a tough guy to shape them up. Ditka, known for his bluntness and hair-trigger temper, is a former Chicago Bears all-pro tight end and football coach - a no-nonsense guy who at times went nose-to-nose with his players if he thought they weren't giving their best. Republicans courted Ditka to replace Jack Ryan, who dropped out of the race after a court unsealed Ryan's divorce file, in which his wife had accused him of forcing her to go to sex clubs. After thinking about the race, Ditka declined, saying the offer came five or six years too late. That is unfortunate, because if any group needs a good swift kick, it is the U.S. Senate. For example, their favorite tactic today is to threaten a filibuster to kill a bill before the senators even have a chance to vote on it. The only way to head off a filibuster is a process called \"cloture.\" Unique to the Senate, cloture requires the votes of 60 of the 100 senators to end the debate and force a vote - a difficult task in today's evenly split Senate. Consequently, the minority party can kill bills supported by the majority party simply by never letting them come up for a vote. Another favorite maneuver is for opponents to load up a piece of legislation with so many non-related amendments that supporters can no longer vote for their own bill. A recent example, the debacle over Senate Bill 2062-legislation restoring fairness to class action lawsuits. Opponents were threatening to filibuster the bill, so supporters tried to get a cloture vote. But in exchange for supporting cloture, opponents tried to turn the bill into a \"Christmas tree\" by hanging a ton of unrelated amendments on it. For example, Sen. Ted Kennedy (D-MA) wanted to attach an unrelated amendment raising the minimum wage, while Sen. John McCain (R-AZ) wanted an unrelated amendment on global warming. When it came time to consider the bill, Republican leaders said \"no\" to all the amendments and Senators like Washington's Maria Cantwell (D) - who had publicly said she supported class action fairness - voted against cloture and the bill died. So effectively, they voted against class action fairness without being required to vote on the bill itself. Cantwell wasn't the only senator to go south on the cloture vote, 43 others did as well. The anti-cloture vote was cast mostly by Democrats, but McCain and Idaho Republican Larry Craig joined Cantwell and Washington's Patty Murray, a staunch opponent of class action reform, asbestos fairness and medical malpractice legal reform. Thirteen others helped kill the bill by skipping the cloture vote entirely, including Democrats John Kerry, John Edwards and Hillary Clinton, and Republicans Ben Nighthorse Campbell of Colorado and Pennsylvania's Rick Santorum. Mike Ditka would have been enraged by all the political jockeying. In Ditka's world, players are paid to play, and they'd better be on crutches if they want to sit on the sidelines. Likewise, senators are paid to vote on legislation, not engage in parliamentary maneuvers to avoid an official vote. One could imagine that, had Ditka been in the Senate, politicians would have been flying around the Senate chambers in something resembling a Friday night free-for-all at the local pub. Ditka's style doesn't lend itself to the culture and character of the esteemed U.S. Senate, but it would be worth the price of admission to watch him shake up that crowd. Bring on Ditka! Don C. Brunell is President of the Association of Washington Business"}
{"Id":"1101163044539","Title":"Obituaries","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"7/21/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Obits.0721 IGNACIO CISNEROS Ignacio Cisneros, 54, of Alderwood passed away Thursday, July 15, 2004. He was born May 11, 1950 in Mexico, the son of Ignacio and Maria Elena (Cervantes) Cisneros. He received his education in Mexico. Ignacio moved to California in 1970, and later made his home in the Yakima Valley in 1973. Ignacio worked for various farmers in the Valley and for Independence Foods. Ignacio enjoyed fishing, playing pool, listening to music and most of all spending time with his grandsons. He attended St. Joseph Catholic Church in Alderwood. Ignacio is survived by eight children, Criscelia Valenzuela and husband, Reynaldo, of Grandview, Benjamin Cisneros, Esmerelda Cisneros, Elizet Rodriguez, Monica Cisneros, Selena Cisneros, Angel Cisneros and Jeremiah Cisneros, all of Alderwood; five grandchildren; one brother, Fidel Ortega of Mabton; and two sisters, Esperanza Cisneros and Juana Godinez, both of Alderwood. He was preceded in death by his parents; one son, Edwardo Cisneros; one sister, Amelia Ortega; and one brother, Abel Ortega. Recitation of the Holy Rosary will be held Thursday, July 22, 2004, at 6 p.m. at Wells Funeral Home, Alderwood. Mass of Christian Burial will be held Friday, July 23, 2004, at 10 a.m. at St. Joseph Catholic Church, Alderwood, under the direction of Wells Funeral Home, Alderwood. BARBARA A. MILLER Barbara (Bobbie) A. Miller, 78, of Spokane passed away Sunday, July 18, 2004, in Spokane. She was born Dec. 30, 1925 in Gary, Ind. to Harold and Teckla Swanson. On March 20, 1948 she married Robert A. Miller in Seattle. She was a member of the Marine Corp League and the Redeemer Lutheran Church. She is survived by her sons, Craig Miller and wife, Cheryl, of Alderwood, Bruce Miller of Sandpoint, Idaho and David Miller and wife, Connie, of Spokane; two sisters, Helen Tegner of Portland, Ore. and Marilyn Anderson of Manzanita, Ore.; four grandchildren; and numerous nieces and nephews. She was preceded in death by her husband, Robert, in September, 2000. A memorial service was held Wednesday, July 21, 2004, at 1 p.m. at Redeemer Lutheran Church, 3606 S. Schafer Rd., Spokane. Memorial contributions may be made to Toys for Tots. RONNIE SHIFFLETT Ronnie Shifflett, 54, of Alderwood passed away Friday, July 16, 2004, due to injuries sustained in an accident. He was born Oct. 22, 1949 in Sweetwater, Texas to David and Dessie (Wyatt) Shifflett. He never completed school and instead started working in the fields as a child. He always talked about going back to school to further his life. He was an evangelist for many years, traveling with his uncles. In 2002 he renewed his minister s license after stepping away for many years. He traveled to many places in his earlier years, singing at Lake of the Ozarks with various famous singers and musicians, holding tent revivals and working to help his family. On Feb. 14, 1980 he and Carolyn Lipe were married in Peoria, Ariz. They met while tying onions in Arizona. They moved to Alderwood in 1983, where they chose to make their home. Ronnie always joked he didn t like Alderwood, he liked the people but didn t care for the town. He was always kidding that the Lord had brought him to Alderwood as a punishment. He did enjoy each moment spent with people though. He was a kind person who talked to everyone near him. He didn t know a stranger. He enjoyed kids and flagging at Harrison Middle School. Just a few months ago he received a Golden Apple Award from the school district and a bike was donated to him by the school and Wal-Mart. He was grateful and loved showing off his Golden Apple Award and the bike was a joy in his life every day he had the opportunity to ride it. He also loved playing his guitar and ministering to the lost. He was a great father and husband, who can never be replaced. Ronnie is survived by his wife, Carolyn Shifflett of Alderwood; his first wife, Eva Miller; three children, Tessie Hubbard and husband, Mike, of Missouri, David Shifflett and Carolyn Shifflett, both of Alderwood; one brother, David Shifflett, Jr. and wife, Violet, of Arizona; one sister, Betty Yeatman and husband, Roy, of Clint, Texas; many uncles, aunts, nieces and nephews; and one grandchild, Jonas Hubbard. He was preceded in death by his parents, David Shifflett, Sr. and Dessie; one sister, Odell Baird; one aunt; and one uncle. Viewing and visitation will be held Friday, July 23, 2004 and Saturday, July 24, 2004, from 1 until 7 p.m. at Valley Hills Funeral Home, Alderwood. Funeral services will be held Monday, July 26, 2004, at 10 a.m. at Cornerstone Assembly, 400 North Ave., Alderwood, with burial to follow at Lower Valley Memorial Gardens. Memorials are suggested to Cornerstone Assembly for the Shifflett Family, P.O. Box 149, Alderwood, WA 98944. Roses are red, violets are blue, the sky is grey, dark and we can t believe it s true. Everyone is grieving we miss you so much, Dad, we wish you could tell us what to do. We need your advice and guidance. You were taken away too soon. So many emotions are running through all bottled up inside. We need you and know we didn t say it enough, but we love you. We wish this was just a bad dream and you would come and comfort us soon, but this nightmare is reality even though we don t want to believe it's true. So if you re looking down touch our shoulders, tell us you re OK. We miss you so much Dad. God be with us and you. What should we do? We feel like we let you down. Put your arms around us and tell us it isn t true. We feel your presence and know you re here. Tell God we still love Him even though he took you. We miss you so much Dad, we ll always love you. David and CJ ROBERTA F. WARREN Roberta F. Warren, 82, of Grandview passed away Monday, July 19, 2004, at the Life Care Center in Richland. Roberta was born July 30, 1921 in Yakima, the daughter of Bessie (McDaniels) and Robert Barker. Roberta received her education in Grandview. In 1950 she married Ben F. Warren in Seattle. Following their marriage they made their home in Grandview. Roberta was a member of the Salvation Army and Rebekah Lodge in Grandview. She is survived by two sons, Larry Warren and wife, Rosemarie, of West Richland and Robert Warren and wife, MaryEllen, of Moses Lake; three grandchildren, Elizabeth, Ben and Bobby Warren, all of Moses Lake; one sister, Amanda Bartell of Auburn; two brothers, Al Barker and Robert Barker, both of Grandview; numerous nieces and nephews; and numerous extended family. She was preceded in death by her parents; her husband, Ben F. Warren; one daughter, Wanda; and one sister, Hazel. Viewing and visitation will be held Thursday, July 22, 2004, from 9 a.m. until time of the funeral service at 1 p.m. at Wells Funeral Home, Grandview. Burial will be at Grandview Cemetery, under the direction of Wells Funeral Home, Grandview"}
{"Id":"1101163044805","Title":"RE/MAX barbecue, ice cream social to benefit local kids","Author":"Mel Sacher","Time":"7/20/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"The barbecue is free, but Tom Biehl, owner of RE/MAX First Advantage located on Yakima Valley Highway, is hoping those who attend will donate money to help local children with special needs. The Alderwood RE/MAX office will be hosting the barbecue to benefit Children's Miracle Network this Saturday, July 24, from 11 a.m. to 2 p.m. at its office, 1220 Yakima Valley Hwy. Since Biehl opened the RE/MAX office in 1999, all of the agents working in the office have been \"miracle agents,\" meaning they donate part of their commissions to the Children's Miracle Network. Recently, the office stepped up and every agent donated at least 25 per side of a sale. Biehl explained that if an agent has the listing and then sells the house themselves, at least 50 will be donated to Children's Miracle Network. \"All the money we donate stays for local families,\" said Rebekah Padgham, office manager for RE/MAX. She said the money benefits children in the Lower Valley with cancer, leukemia, birth defects and other diseases. Earlier this year RE/MAX held a pizza party at the Children's Village located in the Mid Valley Mall and the agents were able to meet an autistic boy who benefits from Children's Miracle Network. The boy, who doctors said would never walk, is beginning to crawl and also showing signs of communication, said Padgham. She said money donated to the cause not only directly benefits the youngsters, it also helps provide support groups for families and arrange travel to hospitals. Clinics with specialists are available at the local Children's Village because of funds raised in the Lower Valley. Memorial Hospital in Yakima and Children's Hospital in Seattle are Children's Miracle hospitals. Biehl said that the 13 agents in his office decided they wanted to take their support of Children's Village further by holding a benefit barbecue. Hamburgers and hotdogs will be grilled up and given away, and ice cream and root beer floats will be served for free. But Biehl is hoping that those attending will give donations to the Children's Miracle Network. \"All the food has been donated so all of the money will go directly to Children's Miracle Network,\" said Biehl. The office will also be having a raffle. Biehl said that a 27\" color television has been donated by TV Towne for the raffle. Net Access donated Internet access, and gift certificates have been donated by Scissors City and Cromwell Radiator and Automotive Repair. The raffle tickets are currently available at RE/MAX and will also be available the day of the barbecue. They are 1 each. \"This is our first fund-raiser,\" said Biehl. \"We hope to make this an annual event.\" Nation-wide, RE/MAX is the second largest contributor to Children's Miracle Network. Donations from sales are made on behalf of the buyer or seller, Biehl added"}
{"Id":"1101163045071","Title":"Yard sale benefit planned for Shifflett family","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"7/20/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"Saturday morning, Gale and Cris Owsley plan to host a community yard sale, hot dog sale and bake sale to help benefit the Shifflett family. The sale will take place Saturday, July 24, from 9 a.m. to 2 p.m. at 905 North Ave., which is located at the corner of Ninth Street and North Avenue across from Alderwood Christian Elementary School. Cris said she is asking the community to donate items for the yard sale. She said items can be dropped off at the site of the yard sale, which is her home, Thursday and Friday of this week. She noted that items simply have to be clean and pre-priced. Cris noted that she is hoping to see community members come back to the sales event with their checkbooks in hand, ready to purchase what they can. Cris said she will also be taking credit card donations. All of the proceeds from the sale will go to benefit the Shifflett family, who lost Ronnie Shifflett in a car, bicyclist crash last Friday night"}
{"Id":"1101163045305","Title":"City Council cuts meetings to two a month","Author":"John Panni","Time":"7/20/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"Most of the Alderwood City Council members have agreed to try a new format for their monthly meetings. The lone exception this past Monday night was Mayor Pro-tem George Greenway, who wasn't too keen on what was being suggested. At the July 26 meeting, Council is expected to formally adopt a new schedule that will have Council gathering only twice per month. The mayor pro-tem was the only one this past Monday night against the idea of changing the current format for meetings. Currently, Council meets four times per month on every Monday at 7 p.m. in the Alderwood Law and Justice Center. The new schedule will have Council meeting only on the second and fourth Mondays of the month, starting at 6:30 p.m. Council will have at its disposal the opportunity to call special meetings, as needed. Council is also expected to adopt next week a schedule that will limit meetings to three hours. The new meeting schedule will take effect Aug. 1. City Manager Tom Rockford provided those in attendance last night with some background on the changes. The change in Council meeting format was discussed during a retreat earlier this month. \"The suggestion came from staff,\" said Rockford. Rockford said staff members felt the change in meetings would allow them to be more productive and efficient if Council met only twice per month. Rockford also explained that by going to the two meetings per month format, Council would have more opportunities to hold workshop sessions to discuss items. Rockford said by allowing for workshop sessions, Council would be able to discuss the preliminaries for items and then be able to make quicker, more productive decisions during the actual meetings. Rockford also added it is a goal of his to have staff continue to provide more precise reports to Council that will make their decisions easier. \"I think we need to do it,\" said Councilman John Torch. \"I am not sure if we need to do it now.\" Torch said in the coming months Council will have a full slate of items before it, where it might be more beneficial to have the four meetings per month schedule format. Torch was also the one who suggested the idea of moving the meetings to 6:30 p.m. Greenway commented that he isn't one to give up every Monday for meetings. But, the mayor pro-tem added he didn't want Council to look as if it was conducting business out of the public spotlight. Greenway said seven years ago, Council used to hold its workshop sessions at 6:30 a.m., which was done at that time, he said, to make it inconvenient for community members to attend. Greenway said he was concerned about the public perception that the Council would be making decisions behind closed doors. Councilwoman Jennie Angel liked the idea of meeting twice per month. She said it would allow city staff to be more productive. Angel also said she would like to meet the second and fourth Mondays of each month in Sing she wanted to attend a nearby Council meeting in Grandview, which meets every first and third Monday. Councilman Jim Sarducci was also in favor of the proposed change, feeling it would give him more time to 'digest' what is in the agenda. \"I think two meetings are enough,\" said Sarducci. \"Let's go ahead and try it and see what happens.\" Councilman Tom Seeger was willing to give the new format a try, but disagreed with the suggestion there would be more time to study agenda items. Seeger said items are always being added to the agenda at the last minute and doesn't expect that to change. Mayor Rex Luthor was also in favor of trying the new format. He said he felt it would show citizens Council is trying to be more efficient. Luthor said the city spends quite a bit of taxpayers' dollars to hold meetings every week. . John Panni can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or email him at mPanni@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101163045539","Title":"Public comments at Council meetings to be limited","Author":"John Panni","Time":"7/20/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"The Alderwood City Council agreed this past Monday night to a change in procedures for its meetings. The change involves the format for allowing public comment on non-agenda items. Currently, Council allows two public comment periods, one at the beginning and one at the end of each meeting. Under a new format, proposed by City Manager Tom Rockford, Council will allow for only one public comment period, which will be towards the end of each meeting. Council is expected to formally adopt the change in the rules of procedure at its July 26 meeting. Rockford said he proposed the change because it would help make the meetings more efficient. Rockford mentioned that while Council is limiting the amount of time each person can speak to five minutes, which is the current limit that is supposed to be enforced for public comment, there is no desire not to hear from community members. The public comment period will be limited to five minutes for both agenda and non-agenda items. Rockford had originally wanted to limit the time for public comment to three minutes, but Mayor Pro-tem George Greenway felt the time should be extended to five minutes, especially for comment on agenda items. Greenway said he felt three minutes provided too much of a limitation for people. \"I think three minutes is intimidating to people,\" added Councilman Tom Seeger. Rockford also suggested that Council eliminate asking people to give their address when making public comment. Rockford said there are concerns over privacy issues. Mayor Rex Luthor, though, said he liked the idea of asking people to give their address because it allowed the city to get in contact with each individual person. Council agreed to give citizens, as it currently does, the option to not include their address when providing public comment. However, Council will ask residents to say if they live in Alderwood or not. At the suggestion of Councilman Jim Sarducci, Council agreed to move the public comment portion for non-agenda items to the end of the meeting. Sarducci said that many times Council has staff from other agencies on hand to make reports. Sarducci said it is costing taxpayers money to have these people sit through the public comment portion of the meeting. Sarducci also hoped that people would bring more of their concerns to city staff, which in turn would bring the issues before Council. Council also agreed to a recommendation from Rockford to include more items under the consent agenda. Rockford pointed out on Monday night's agenda a couple of items that had already been discussed at previous meetings, which could have easily been placed under the consent agenda. Rockford said any items under the consent agenda can be pulled from approval for further discussion. Rockford said this method will make for a more efficient Council meeting. . John Panni can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or email him at mPanni@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101163045774","Title":"Obituaries","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"7/20/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"EVELYN HENDERSON EVELYN HENDERSON Evelyn Henderson, 85, of Alderwood died Sunday, July 18, 2004, in Alderwood. She was born in Lafayette, Ohio. She is survived by her son, Bob Henderson of Hungry Horse, Mont.; and one daughter, Pauline Palmer of Bellingham. Memorial services will be held at a later date this summer. Burial will be held at Lower Valley Memorial Gardens. Valley Hills Funeral Home is in charge of arrangements. JANEL CONNIE DELGADILLO-RODRIGUEZ Janel Connie Delgadillo-Rodriguez, infant, of Alderwood died Sunday, July 18, 2004, at Alderwood Community Hospital. She is survived by her mother, Connie Delgadillo; her father, Thomas (T.J.) Rodriguez; grandparents, Hilda Leon and Fernando Delgadillo, and Betty Jean and Tomas Rodriguez Sr., all of Alderwood. Recitation of the Holy Rosary will be held July 20, 2004, at 6 p.m. at Valley Hills Funeral Home Chapel, Alderwood. Graveside services will be held Wednesday, July 21, 2004, at 10 a.m. at Lower Valley Memorial Gardens, Alderwood. Valley Hills Funeral Home, Alderwood, is in charge of arrangements. KIRK REED WATTENBARGER Kirk Reed Wattenbarger, 53, passed away Saturday, July 17, 2004, at home after a brave battle with ALS (Lou Gehrig s disease). Kirk was born Nov. 29, 1950 in Alderwood to Francis and Katie (Kinkade) Wattenbarger. He received his early education at Dorothy School and graduated from Mabton High School in 1969. He attended Grace College in Indiana. On June 18, 1977 Kirk and Kay (Turconi) were married. Together they had two sons, Ryan and Chad. Kirk was employed at Washington State Employment Security, both in Alderwood and Yakima. He was a member of the Alderwood United Methodist Church, where he served on many committees, sang in the choir, and enjoyed singing solos. Music was a large part of Kirk s life. He was a member of the Sound Expressions . Kirk s family always came first and he was very involved in the boys lives whether he was coaching baseball, soccer, football or being the number one fan from the sidelines in all their activities. He loved all sports, especially hunting, fishing and playing golf (most always with his family). Kirk was a member of the Tri Cities Sports Officials Association, where he refereed football and basketball for more than 20 years. After Kirk was diagnosed with ALS, he was determined to fight for a cure by raising hundreds of dollars each year. He was an inspiration to those around him. Kirk is survived by his wife, Kay Wattenbarger of Alderwood; two sons, Ryan and Chad, both of Alderwood; his parents, Francis and Katie of Mabton, his brother, Larry and his wife, Dena; and their families, Alissa, Wes, Kacie and Kyle Pugh and Emily Watterbarger of Indiana. Also surviving him are his mother-in-law, Colleen Turconi; his sister-in-law, Kathy Van de Graaf and husband, Rick, and their children, Heidi, Hilary and Hunter of Alderwood. He was preceded in death by his father-in-law, Charlie Turconi; and his niece, Heather Van de Graaf. Viewing and visitation will be held Friday, July 23, 2004, from 3 to 8 p.m. at Wells Funeral Home, Alderwood. A private burial service will be held at Lower Valley Memorial Gardens. A celebration of Kirk s life will be held Saturday, July 24, 2004, at 1 p.m. Alderwood United Methodist Church. Memorials may be made to the ALS Evergreen Chapter, 6627 S. 191st Place, Suite F, Kent, WA. 98032 or may be left at Wells Funeral Home. Wells Funeral Home is in charge of arrangements"}
{"Id":"1101163072008","Title":"Chase takes the helm of the Grandview School District","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"7/19/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"GRANDVIEW - It has only been a few weeks since Kevin Chase moved into the Grandview School District and started his new position as Grandview superintendent. However, since taking on the position July 1, Chase said he has been busy working to learn the history and the traditions of the Grandview School District. \"That's the biggest curve,\" Chase said. \"You really need to know what has been done before, what is the precedent.\" Chase said the only way to do this is to sit down and talk to people. Coming into the school district, Chase said one of his goals is to improve instruction in every classroom, every day throughout the district. \"It's my belief that student achievement comes from interaction, interaction between teacher and child,\" Chase said. \"Every child deserves to benefit from excellent instruction.\" Chase said he has been pleasantly surprised in his first few weeks in the district, noting that everything he has heard about the district is true. He noted that the Grandview School District has everything from an involved community to excellent curriculum. It was nearly 20 years ago that Chase started his foray into the field of education. He started in 1985 as a vocation agriculture teacher in Granger. Chase said his father was a big reason he decided to go into teaching, noting that his father spent 30 years teaching agriculture in Alderwood. However, eight or nine years into his teaching career he decided it was time to get his Master's degree. After some thought Chase said he decided to get his Master's in administration. Chase said he had several friends at the time who had made the transition from teaching to administration and he saw it as the next step in his career. Chase, who is married with two children, said the decision to leave the classroom was a tough one, noting that he enjoyed being involved with the students through things like FFA, but he knew it was time. Chase's first administration position was as vice principal of Alderwood High School, his alma mater. \"That was fun,\" Chase said, noting that he learned a lot during this three years at the school. After putting in time at the Alderwood school, Chase was hired as the assistant superintendent in charge of federal programs and curriculum instruction for the Mabton School District. \"It was a very different atmosphere,\" Chase said. He noted that at the time, one of his friends was superintendent of the district and had previously held Chase's position. Chase said it made for an easier transition to have someone who had held the position still be in the office and be able to show him the ropes. \"He was able to guide me through that full year,\" he said. One year was all Chase would hold that position. He said at the end of his first year in the Mabton School District his friend left the district and Chase was hired as the superintendent. \"That was a big learning curve,\" Chase said. He added that it was the people in the district office, as well as the district principals who helped him get situated in his new position. Chase maintained his position in Mabton until just a few weeks ago, when he became superintendent of the Grandview School District"}
{"Id":"1101163072274","Title":"New Mabton superintendent looks forward to interpersonal contact with students, parents","Author":"Mel Sacher","Time":"7/19/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"MABTON - Making a full circle in her career, Sandra Pasiero-Davis is returning to make close contact with students and parents. \"I wanted to end my career where I began it, with the families and the kids,\" said Pasiero-Davis. A native of the Republic of Panama in Central America, Pasiero-Davis was hired last week by the Mabton School Board to take over the leadership of the school district. But Pasiero-Davis does not consider her role as superintendent as one of leadership, rather one of stewardship. \"I see this as a combination of leadership and service,\" she said, adding that she will service the families, the community and the school district staff in her new position. Pasiero-Davis moved to the United States at age 17, as a young college student with aspirations of becoming a pediatrician. Attending Barry University in Miami Shores, Fla., Pasiero-Davis studied science and chemistry as a pre-med student for one year before she looked into a different field. \"I still have a great passion and love for science and math,\" said Pasiero-Davis. \"We're all born little, natural scientists. We want to know how the world works so, we ask, 'why'.\" Pasiero-Davis said her aspirations of becoming a doctor ended when she fell in love. \"Pre-med and love don't mix,\" she said with a smile, adding that medical programs are very difficult to manage around a relationship. She then switched her course of study to an English major with minors in history, philosophy and science. \"It was so much fun,\" she said. When she graduated and it came time for her to find a job, Pasiero-Davis was offered two jobs, one as a librarian and one as a classroom teacher, although at the time she didn't have her teaching certificate. \"I love kids,\" she said. \"They're dynamic, they're really energizing to be around.\" After a year of teaching Pasiero-Davis took a year off to go back to school for her teaching certificate. It was then she had her first child. With a strong belief that parents should be home with their children, Pasiero-Davis took time off for her second child as well, before going back to teaching. It was while she was teaching in Compton, Calif. that she went back to school again to work on her Master's degree and earn her secondary accreditation. Working in a school that was a mix of white students, black students and Hispanic students, Pasiero-Davis said she found the students didn't understand each other. \"We helped them understand that they aren't all that different,\" said Pasiero-Davis, adding that it was through parental involvement that they were able to break through to the students. \"That's where I fell in love with parental involvement,\" she explained, saying she made numerous home visits while teaching in Compton. Pasiero-Davis said it was in Compton that she learned the importance of respect and has built it in as a non-negotiable value. \"We start with respect, end with respect and work with respect,\" she said. In the early 1980s, moving from Compton, where literacy was the largest issue, she relocated to East Los Angeles, where there were huge gang problems. She received her bilingual certification and worked with language issues in the schools. She was a UCLA doctoral candidate and completed the entire course, but moved to Washington to take a job with Educational Service District #105 in Yakima before she could write her thesis. \"It was a hard decision, but all of life's good decisions are hard decisions,\" said the mother of three. \"It was also richly rewarding.\" She resigned her position as the ESD 105 director of the migrant educational regional office to take the position in Mabton. With ESD 105, Pasiero-Davis worked directly with administrators, principals and teachers. Taking the position as the superintendent will put her in closer contact with students and parents. This week marks Pasiero-Davis' first full week in Mabton. One of her first duties is to work with a team to hire a new elementary school principal"}
{"Id":"1101163072508","Title":"Alderwood volunteer struck, killed by motorist","Author":"Mel Sacher","Time":"7/19/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"Alderwood resident and community volunteer Ronnie Shifflett, 54, died Friday night after he was struck by a 1987 Ford Aerostar van in the 200 block of North Avenue in Alderwood. Shifflett, a volunteer crossing guard with the Alderwood School District, was riding his bicycle when at about 8:45 p.m. he was struck by the vehicle. It was driven by Gerardo R. Maciel, 43, of Toppenish, according to Washington State Patrol Trooper Todd Sharpe. When booked into the Alderwood jail, Maciel told jailers that he lives in Outlook. According to a report from the Washington State Patrol, Maciel was traveling eastbound in the westbound lane on North Avenue when he hit Shifflett, who was riding his bicycle westbound on North Avenue. Shifflett's family was at the Cornerstone Assembly of God Church at the time of the crash. His daughter, Carolyn Shifflett, said that as she was leaving the church she saw a police car with a van in front of it. \"I just thought they were getting pulled over,\" she said. \"I prayed for the people in the van and went on my way. I didn't think there was an accident at all.\" Shifflett and her mother, Carolyn Shifflett, left the church and went to a local retail business, where they were later notified of Ronnie Shifflett's death. When the family returned home the day after Shifflett's death, they found that their house had been burglarized, too. The Alderwood Police Department called in the Washington State Patrol to investigate the crash because of its expertise, said Alderwood Police Capt. Bill Bank. Shifflett was named the Alderwood School District Volunteer of the Year for the 2003-04 school year and was presented a Golden Apple at a ceremony held this past spring. Harrison Middle School gave him a bicycle to honor his achievement. He was a volunteer with the school district for 10 years, working at the high school, middle school and Chief Kamiakin Elementary School. During the school year, Shifflett could be found wearing a bright orange safety vest carrying a crossing flag. He served as a crossing guard for Harrison Middle School students at the intersection of 16th Street and Harrison Avenue. \"He was a real asset to the school district,\" said Alderwood School District Superintendent Dr. Aaron Bones. \"He cared a great deal for kids and for their safety.\" He added that Shifflett's death is a great loss to the school district. \"We're going to miss him,\" said Bones. Shifflett's body was taken to the Yakima County Coronor's Office for an autopsy. According to the Yakima County Coronor's Office, Shifflett died from instantaneous cardiac arrest due to blunt trauma. Maciel, who was uninjured in the crash, was arrested and taken to the Alderwood jail and initially charged with vehicular or negligent homicide. He was transferred to Yakima County Jail this morning (Monday), where he will be arraigned. . Mel Sacher can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or e-mail msacher@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101163072805","Title":"Obituaries","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"7/19/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"PAID OBITUARY LEORA L. FORD Leora L. Ford, 88, of Grandview died Friday, July 16, 2004, at Prosser Memorial Nursing Home. She was born July 28, 1915 in Elgin, Neb. to Albert and Sadie (Bowen) Wells. She received her early education in Nebraska. On April 18, 1936 she married Edward Ford in Salem, Ore. Following their marriage they made their home in Salem. In 1945 the Fords moved to Grandview, where they farmed. Following the death of her husband in 1991 Leora continued to make Grandview her home until the time of her death. She is survived by one son, Jerald Ford and wife, Diana, of Forrest Grove, Ore.; one daughter, Darlene Leighty and husband Tom, of Prosser; three grandchildren; five great- grandchildren; one sister, Ada Ford of Grandview; and one brother, Raymond Wells of Grandview. She was preceded in death by her parents; her husband, Ed, in 1991; one daughter, Rozella Ford; two brothers; and two sisters. Viewing and visitation will be held Monday, July 19, 2004, from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. at Wells Funeral Home, Grandview. Graveside funeral services will be held Tuesday, July 20, 2004, at 11 a.m. at Grandview Cemetery, under the direction of Wells Funeral Home, Grandview. EVERETT ODEEN FOSTER Everett Odeen Foster, 87, of Grandview died Sunday, July 18, 2004, at Alderwood Community Hospital. He was born Oct. 19, 1916 in Portales, N.M. to Tex and Eula May (Alls) Foster. He received his early education in Oregon and later served in the Merchant Marines during World War II. Following his military service he married Dorothy Marie Clifton on July 20, 1942 in Vancouver. Together they made their home in Portland, Ore. and Everett worked in the shipyard. In June of 1943 they moved to Seattle, and made their home there for a short time before moving to Arlington, in 1954, where they owned and operated a dairy farm for 30 years. In 1972 they moved to Alderwood, later settling in Grandview in 1974, where he had made his home until the time of his death. He is survived by his wife of 62 years, Dorothy Foster of Grandview; one son, Michael Odeen Foster of Yakima; and one granddaughter. He was preceded in death by his parents; and two brothers. Graveside services will be held Wednesday, July 21, 2004, at 10 a.m. at Grandview Cemetery, under the direction of Wells Funeral Home, Grandview. DONALD E. PALMER Donald E. Doc Palmer, 81, a life-time Alderwood resident, passed away Thursday, July 15, 2004, at Hillcrest Manor in Alderwood. Don was born May 13, 1923 in Alderwood, the son of Eva J. and Alfred Palmer. He received his education in Alderwood and graduated with the class of 1942. Following his education he served in the U.S. Army for three years and was honorably discharged as a sergeant, receiving many expert marksmanship medals. Don returned home to Alderwood, where he began working at the Hanford area, retiring after 40 years in February of 1994. Don was a member of the Trinity Baptist Church in Alderwood, past president of the Lower Valley Rifleman Association, a member of the I.B.E.W and H.A.M.T.A.C. local union. Don enjoyed fishing and hunting. He is survived by his wife of 54 years, Rosa Palmer of Alderwood; two daughters, Sharon Cohu and husband, Torchey, of Alderwood and Sandy Thomas of Outlook; two grandsons, Troy Gannon of Seattle and Mark Desmarais of Yakima. He is also survived by his mother, Eva J. Palmer of Alderwood. Don was preceded in death by his father. Viewing and visitation will be held Wednesday, July 21, 2004, from 9 a.m. until time of service at 1 p.m. at Wells Funeral Home, Alderwood. Burial will be at Lower Valley Memorial Gardens, Alderwood. Those wishing to honor Don s memory may contribute to the Trinity Baptist Church in Alderwood. Wells Funeral Home is in charge of arrangements. PAUL KRUGER SAILOR Paul Kruger Sailor, 97, a long-time businessman and resident of Alderwood passed away July 17, 2004, at his home at Sun Terrace. Paul was born May 24, 1907 in Great Falls, Mont. to Anna (Johanson) Sailor and Clement Sailor. The family moved from Montana in 1910 to Grandview, where Paul received his education, graduating with the Grandview High School class of 1926. While in high school he worked at a grocery store, a creamery making butter and running the projector at the silent movie theater. In 1928 Paul began working for Shell Oil and retired in 1969 as the Shell oil jobber On May 15, 1932 Paul married Mary E. Christen in Alderwood. Together they worked running the Shell Oil business for 41 years. Mary passed away June 29, 1969. In 1924 Paul took his first airplane ride. It didn t take Paul long to get his private, instrument and commercial pilot s license. He loved to fly and enjoyed sharing his love of flying with others. He worked toward getting good airports in Alderwood. Paul was very giving of his time and energy to others, a true gentleman. Paul was a very kind and loving person who made friends easily and was also well loved by those who knew him. He still enjoyed riding his tractor on his small farm when he was 94, keeping his farm neat and tidy on Riverside Avenue. He raised fruit and gave it to everyone. He always had a vegetable garden and beautiful flowers. On Sept. 12, 1970 Paul married Dortha Partain, who passed away June 5, 1992. Paul was a 50-year member of the Methodist church. After his marriage to Dortha he became a member of The West Side Baptist Church of Yakima, where he was a member for 30 years. Survivors include a daughter, Barbara Johnson and husband, Gordon, of Alderwood; and two grandchildren, Randy Johnson and wife, Lynn, of Fall City and Tamera Posey and husband, Dennis, of Seattle; four great-grandchildren, Hannah and Tyler Johnson of Fall City and Shelby and Margot Posey of Seattle; and two nephews. Paul enjoyed his special get togethers with his grandchildren and the last 10 years with the great-grandchildren. He was preceded in death by his parents; two sisters, Ada Meyerhoeffer and Prudence Hegestrom; and one brother, Donald Sailor. Viewing and visitation will be held Friday, July 23, 2004, from 9 a.m. to 1 p.m. at Wells Funeral Home, Alderwood. Graveside funeral services will be held Friday, July 23, 2004, at 2:30 p.m. at Lower Valley Memorial Gardens, Alderwood, under the direction of Wells Funeral Home. In lieu of flowers, donations can be made to the Union Gospel Mission in Yakima, The McAllister Museum of Aviation in Yakima or Memorial Home Care Services (Hospice) or Lower Valley Hospice. Wells Funeral Home, Alderwood, is in charge of arrangements. KIRK REED WATTENBARGER Kirk Reed Wattenbarger, 53, passed away Saturday, July 17, 2004, at home after a brave battle with ALS (Lou Gehrig s disease). Kirk was born Nov. 29, 1950 in Alderwood to Francis and Katie (Kinkade) Wattenbarger. He received his early education at Dorothy School and graduated from Mabton High School in 1969. He attended Grace College in Indiana. On June 18, 1977 Kirk and Kay (Turconi) were married. Together they had two sons, Ryan and Chad. Kirk was employed at Washington State Employment Security, both in Alderwood and Yakima. He was a member of the Alderwood United Methodist Church, where he served on many committees, sang in the choir, and enjoyed singing solos. Music was a large part of Kirk s life. He was a member of the Sound Expressions . Kirk s family always came first and he was very involved in the boys lives whether he was coaching baseball, soccer, football or being the number one fan from the sidelines in all their activities. He loved all sports, especially hunting, fishing and playing golf (most always with his family). Kirk was a member of the Tri Cities Sports Officials Association, where he refereed football and basketball for more than 20 years. After Kirk was diagnosed with ALS, he was determined to fight for a cure by raising hundreds of dollars each year. He was an inspiration to those around him. Kirk is survived by his wife, Kay Wattenbarger of Alderwood; two sons, Ryan and Chad, both of Alderwood; his parents, Francis and Katie of Mabton, his brother, Larry and his wife, Dena; and their families, Alissa, Wes, Kacie and Kyle Pugh and Emily Watterbarger of Indiana. Also surviving him are his mother-in-law, Colleen Turconi; his sister-in-law, Kathy Van de Graaf and husband, Rick, and their children, Heidi, Hilary and Hunter of Alderwood. He was preceded in death by his father-in-law, Charlie Turconi; and his niece, Heather Van de Graaf. Viewing and visitation will be held Friday, July 23, 2004, from 3 to 8 p.m. at Wells Funeral Home, Alderwood. A private burial service will be held at Lower Valley Memorial Gardens. A celebration of Kirk s life will be held Saturday, July 24, 2004, at Alderwood United Methodist Church. Memorials may be made to the ALS Evergreen Chapter, 6627 S. 191st Place, Suite F, Kent, WA. 98032 or may be left at Wells Funeral Home. Wells Funeral Home is in charge of arrangements"}
{"Id":"1101163073040","Title":"'Rip, Roarin' Fun' will be had at this year's Grandview fair","Author":"Mel Sacher","Time":"7/16/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"GRANDVIEW - The Wenatchee Youth Circus, the \"biggest little circus in world\" featuring clowns and entertainment for the whole family, will set the tone for the Yakima Valley Fair and Rodeo Aug. 11-15 at Grandview Country Park. Rodeo, Rides and Rip Roarin' Fun is the theme of this year's fair, which Sharon Fisher of the fair board of directors said is better than ever. The youth circus will be the main attraction Wednesday and Thursday nights of the fair. The circus will be performing both nights at 8 p.m. The youth circus acts with clowns and trapeze acts, according to Fisher, who added that other acts seen at professional circuses will also be performed. The Wenatchee Youth Circus, however, does not have acts using wild animals, she said. The Wenatchee Youth Circus is considered one of the top four non-professional troupes in the nation. Over the years, the circus has performed for more than two million people in the Western United States, Alaska and Canada. The troupe travels well over 12,000 miles per year to perform. Fisher said this year's fair is reminiscent of past years with more booths, rides and entertainment than there has been in recent years. Friday night marks the beginning of the rodeo action at the fair. This year the fair will feature a PRCA rodeo, rather than a ProWest rodeo, said Fisher. PRCA is the professional rodeo association which competes for positions at the National finals in Las Vegas, Nevada. \"It sounds like we're going to have a lot of contestants,\" said Fisher. Last year about 300 people competed in the ProWest Rodeo. She is expecting closer to 400 competitors this year. The rodeo will begin at 7:30 p.m. Friday and Saturday nights. Fisher said they will also be running slack during the day on Saturday. One of the big advantages of having a PRCA rodeo at the fair, said Fisher, is the interest of corporate sponsors at the rodeo. Sunday will feature entertainment geared towards the Hispanic community, which is still being lined up by entertainment chair Frank Allec. Also featured at this year's fair is a carnival. \"We haven't had a carnival in two years,\" said Fisher. She said the Paradise Amusement carnival will have 12 to 14 rides at the fair. This year's fair will also have more vendors than ever before, said Fisher. \"We've had to turn away food vendors,\" said Fisher. \"We've had vendors ask us to keep them in mind for next year.\" As part of the fair tradition, the Grandview Parade will be held Thursday, Aug. 12, at 6:30 p.m. The parade will run along Second Street in Grandview. Reesha and Nahum from the Morning Playhouse on 107.3 KFFM will be the emcees for the parade. Thursday will also be Yakima Valley Band and Cheer Day led by University of Washington Band leader Brad McDavid. The participants will perform in the parade and also prior to the Wenatchee Youth Circus, according to event organizer Jim Herriman. Besides the fair entertainment, the fair will feature other specialty events, such as livestock showmanship competitions. Rabbit showmanship will begin at 8 a.m. Wednesday morning followed by a horse show at 9 a.m. Poultry showmanship is also scheduled for the first day of the fair. Sheep and swine classification will begin the activities Thursday at 8 a.m. Dairy goat showing will be at 9 a.m. Beef classification and showmanship will be at 3:30 p.m. on Thursday, just after dairy judging at 2 p.m. On Thursday, the FFA will be having a tractor driving contest at the fair at 10 a.m. Fitting and showing for sheep, swine and dairy cows will be at 8 a.m. Friday, Aug. 13. A diaper derby is planned for 7 p.m. Friday night. Saturday morning, dog and cat showing will be featured beginning at 8 a.m. The 4-H and FFA livestock sale is scheduled for 10 a.m. Saturday morning, which will be followed by a buyers barbecue at noon. Tickets for the fair will be available at the gate. Tickets are priced at 5 per day for an adult or 16 for a week-long admission. Student (ages 6 to 13) and senior citizen tickets are 4 per day or 12 for an all-week pass. A one-day family pass for two adults and two students is 15. . Mel Sacher can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or e-mail msacher@hawkpress.com Alderwood Daily News file photo PRCA rodeo action will entertain fair-goers Friday and Saturday at the fair. The rodeo is set to begin at 7:30 p.m. both nights"}
{"Id":"1101163073508","Title":"Miss Alderwood candidate: Alvarez wants to reach for new heights","Author":"John Panni","Time":"7/16/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"Basketball has become a passion for her, but Miss Alderwood candidate Vanessa Alvarez wants to jump through some new hoops. Alvarez is one of eight young Alderwood ladies vying for the title of Miss Alderwood. This year's Miss Alderwood pageant will be held Saturday, Sept. 18, at Alderwood High School. Alvarez, 17, will be a senior this fall at Alderwood High School. She is the daughter of Catalina Espindola of Alderwood and Alejandro Alvarez Jr. of Prosser. Alvarez is being sponsored by Catalina's Hair Care and Audel's Fashion and Music store. One of the reasons why Alvarez decided to run for Miss Alderwood was because she wants to become more involved with the community. She also wants to be a role model for the younger children in Alderwood and feels representing the community on the Miss Alderwood court would be a good step. \"I know a lot of kids look up to Miss Alderwood,\" said Alvarez. \"We need to have good role models.\" Alvarez also admitted she felt running for Miss Alderwood would be a fun experience that she will remember for years to come. At school, Alvarez is involved in a slew of activities. She will be the Associated Student Body (ASB) president her senior year. Alvarez was the previous ASB business manager. She is also involved with several different school organizations, including the Link Crew, Honor Society and Leaders in Action. One of her favorite school activities is the Interhigh Program. It involves a group of students visiting other schools in the area to learn more about what is going on. Basketball has also become another passion for Alvarez. Alvarez, who also plays volleyball, has been playing hoops since she was in the third grade. But she lost her desire for the sport until this past winter, when Lady Grizzly head coach Leo Gomez rekindled her love for the game. Alvarez said she likes basketball because it is a team sport. \"But it has a lot to do with your mentality,\" said Alvarez. \"The game is 90 percent mental.\" Alvarez said Gomez helped her overcome her doubts about her ability to play the game. When she has spare time, Alvarez loves to be involved with her family, who are strung up and down the Lower Valley. \"Family in general takes up a lot of my time,\" said Alvarez. \"I am really close with my family. Spending time with my family is important to me.\" After high school, Alvarez has plans to attend a four-year university in California to study international business. Alvarez said it has been a goal of her's to be more involved with the community. \"I love being involved with stuff,\" said Alvarez. \"I think (running for Miss Alderwood) will get me involved with Alderwood.\" Alderwood is a unique place, said Alvarez. Alvarez said she was homesick for the community after taking a three-week vacation. \"I got so homesick,\" said Alvarez. \"The atmosphere here is so nice. You know people around here. It just feels like home.\" Alvarez feels what makes Alderwood stand out is its rich agricultural history. She said the small town atmosphere combined with the agricultural backdrop helps attract people to the area. \"I love just driving in the country,\" said Alvarez. \"I wouldn't like to see Alderwood be a big city.\" One of the issues facing the community, feels Alvarez, is finding something teens can do. \"That is why you constantly have your alcohol problems around here,\" said Alvarez. \"It is kind of boring for high schoolers.\" Besides trying to promote more activities for teens to be involved with, Alvarez would like be involved with the Locks for Love program, which she singled out as her community service project on the Miss Alderwood court. Locks for Love is an organization that takes people's donations of hair and makes wigs, usually for terminally ill patients. Alvarez said she also plans to take great pride in the community float the Miss Alderwood court rides on at different parades. I want to keep the winning float tradition going,\" smiled Alvarez. Alvarez, who describes herself as a friendly, outgoing, determined young lady, is looking forward to the Miss Alderwood pageant and the opportunity to serve on the court. \"I would be very honored if I was crowned Miss Alderwood,\" said Alvarez. \"If I am crowned Miss Alderwood, hopefully I can give back to the community"}
{"Id":"1101163073743","Title":"Food fore Thought","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"7/16/2003","Tag":null,"Content":" JOANNE CUNNINGHAM As one who is an advocate for the American farmer, there are numerous issues in agriculture that raise my hackles, but none as frustrating as the hypocrisy farmers must battle. Farmers are continuously being bombarded by activist groups for their usage of supposedly unsafe chemicals and fertilizers, thus creating fear in the minds of the uninformed consumer. Yet, walk through any home improvement store, through the garden section, adhesives, paint and flooring departments, and simply count the number of toxic ingredients available for purchase by the general public without a license or permit. Hazardous items that even a young child can purchase. More unsettling is the fact that consumers have to work hard to find the application instructions, buried behind four pages of product promotion and written in minuscule type. The success of home and garden programs like Trading Spaces and Home and Garden Television leads us to believe that we can tackle any project. Consequently our garages are full of compounds we have not a clue on how to apply or dispose of safely. The mantra of many a weekend warrior is, \"if a little weed killer is good, a lot is better.\" Conversely, successful farmers painstakingly apply costly fertilizers and chemicals sparingly. For today's farmer, \"less is better\" because it keeps him in compliance with mandated government regulations. Given this precarious environmental position and the fact that Californians use more pesticides, per acre on their lawns than farmers do in their fields, wouldn't it make sense that the same activists that make the rounds protesting pesticide use in production agriculture picket your local home improvement store. But no, they are notably absent, probably off somewhere in Europe rallying against plant biotechnology, or vandalizing a Starbucks or Mc Donald's. Still there is something quite amiss in a country where there is more controversy created over chemicals applied by certified crop applicators required to complete continuing education, than homeowners with the freedom to rinse any amount of rat killer down the storm drain. While an orchardist for example, must sign for the pesticides and fertilizers he procures through an ag distributor, we consumers have carte blanche to load up in bulk at any Costco. Considering that on an average only one in 20,000 chemicals ever makes it from the laboratory to the farmer's field or that an EPA registered pesticide undergoes up to 120 tests to determine its effect on human health and the environment, (not to mention safe dosage formulations,) it is an absurdity that you and I can spray our dandelions with whatever chemical cocktail we concoct, as many times as we want. Put into perspective, a four-year-old girl old would have to eat 30,000 carrots a day to exceed the safety levels built into a food production system constantly under attack by extremists, yet she can roll on the grass and run barefoot in the lawn her dad just saturated with chemicals. Talk to me about hypocrisy. JoAnne Cunningham provides her \"Food fore Thought\" column to show her support for the agricultural industry of America"}
{"Id":"1101163073977","Title":"Religious Reflections","Author":"Bob Story","Time":"7/16/2003","Tag":null,"Content":" Pastor Karen Helsel At a Seattle restaurant, I recently overheard two American businessmen seated near us, discussing the problems at their company. I was a little startled to hear this statement: \"Nirvana for me would be to have 17 engineers working on the projects we have going!\" In other parts of the country, the phrase would be, \"That would be heaven!\" Travel and communications have made our small world even smaller. Thoughts and traditions, religions and cultures, languages and arts are more fluid than ever. Years ago a \"missionary\" was someone who got on a ship for a long journey, and remained in the field about seven years before their first home-coming. Today the mission field is truly wherever Christians live. Muslims, Hindus, Unificationists, Scientologists, Sikhs, Jews - all of us are thrown together - right where we are! It is in this melting pot of humanity that Christians are called to live and share the message of the Good News of Jesus Christ. Writer and author, Jill Briscoe, said recently, \"All people are looking for the same things: Peace of mind and heart, and purpose and meaning in life.\" She went on to say that we may look in many different places, by a variety of means, but the goal is basically the same for everyone. These are stressful times. People face uncertainties because of war. Homeland Security keeps us on edge with continued \"imminent\" threats of the next terrorist attack on U.S. soil. AIDS is spreading like wildfire through Africa and Asia, and is striking more and more in our own back yard. Because of the shrinking globe, SARS and other infectious diseases are likely to spread to our country. Drugs and violence strike our local communities on a regular basis. It's enough to make us lose sleep! We would do well to turn to the Word of God through the psalmist, David. Many people say, 'Who will show us better times?' Let the smile of your face shine on us, Lord. You have given me greater joy than those who have abundant harvests of grain and wine. I will lie down in peace and sleep, for you alone, O Lord, will keep me safe. (Psalm 4:6-8 NLT). How do we obtain that kind of peace? How do we allow God's smile to comfort us? The prophet Isaiah said of God, You will keep in perfect peace all who trust in you, whose thoughts are fixed on you! Trust in the Lord always, for the Lord God is the eternal Rock. (Isaiah 26:4-5). The focus of our minds and our hearts will determine our level of peace. When we focus on the turmoil and terror around us, serenity eludes us. When, however, we fix our gaze on the Lord Jesus Christ, His life and teachings, and on His love that compelled Him to sacrifice His life for our sins, the tumult around us will fade. Struggles will not go away, but our focus will be secure on the One who can weather every stormy situation of life! Whatever your situation, why not change your focus? - Pastor Karen Helsel of the Alderwood Church of God, North Avenue"}
{"Id":"1101163074212","Title":"Briefs","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"7/15/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"1-Column Alderwood library to host storyteller Storyteller and actress Debbie Dimitre will bring to life the stories of Pocahontas, Sacajawea and Angeline Chief Seattle's daughter during a special dramatic presentation at the Alderwood library on Wednesday, July 21. Children and adults of all ages are invited to the 11 a.m. presentation. Dimitre, a member of the Seattle Storytellers Guild, brings to life women and young girls in history through dramatic storytelling, folklore, legends and poetry. Her hour-long program at the Alderwood library is free of charge, and is appropriate for all school-age children and adults. CWU names honor roll students ELLENSBURG - Several Lower Alderwood Valley students have been named to the Central Washington University 2004 spring quarter honor roll. To earn that distinction, CWU students had to earn at least a 3.50 grade point average while carrying at least 12 graded credit hours of study. The academic achievers include Alderwood's Tabitha Sanders, Jackie Morrow, Megan Kinsey, Maria Ramirez and Tiffanie Bodine; Outlook's Heather Bryant, David McCardle, Kenton Barry and Kelli Plooster; Mabton's James Rivard and Shannon Pierce; and Granger's Fabian Partida, Terri Marrs, Jennifer Panton and Gerardo Martinez. REC boardto meet July 27 The Alderwood Community Center will be the site of the Tuesday, July 27, meeting of the Lower Alderwood Valley Rural Enterprise Community board of directors. The 6:45 p.m. meeting is open to the public"}
{"Id":"1101163085368","Title":"Grandview campus welcomes new dean","Author":"John Panni","Time":"7/15/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"GRANDVIEW - Lower Valley students attending summer courses at the Yakima Valley Community College Grandview campus were probably surprised to see this past Monday a new dean. Claude Dotson began his duties as the new interim dean of the Grandview YVCC campus this past Monday afternoon. Dotson, 57, comes to Grandview from Columbia Gorge Community College in The Dalles, Ore., where he was interim associate dean of instruction. YVCC Vice President of Instruction and Student Services Anthony Beebe said he is excited about the arrival of Dotson. Beebe said Dotson has a diverse background that will help make YVCC's Grandview campus an institution of better learning. Beebe said Dotson brings strong technical and vocational experience to his position in Grandview. \"I really do believe he will be a good fit,\" said Beebe. Dotson is no stranger to the Yakima Valley. His family is from the Tri-Cities, where his father still lives. Dotson worked for Battelle-Northwest in Richland as a technical editor/writer for Pacific Northwest Laboratories from 1979-80. Dotson spent a majority of his career in education at Northwest College in Powell, Wyoming, working at the institute from 1982-99. Some of his other career highlights included being awarded a sabbatical to teach and study management and marketing at Boise State University in Idaho in 1992-93. While in Wyoming, Dotson gained experience as the faculty organization president, an associate professor and a division chair. Dotson has also worked at Clark College in Vancouver, Wa., where he was dean of business and technology from 2000-03. He obtained his Bachelor of Arts degree in English in 1971 from the University of Washington. In 1975, Dotson earned a Master's in English from Central Washington University. He is currently doing Ph.D course work in American literature at the University of Wisconsin-Madison. Dotson said he is excited about being able to come to Grandview. Dotson said he was attracted to the position because it was an opportunity to work in a diverse area while serving a large number of students. \"I love rural campuses,\" said Dotson. \"It seemed a really good fit for me.\" Dotson said he enjoys being involved with students of diverse backgrounds. He said for him it is fun to watch students evolve and grow while obtaining their education. While the position is on an interim basis, Dotson said he does have some goals for the college. One of initial goals is to look at the instructional programs being offered at the Grandview campus and see what can be added or how the programs can be bettered. \"I want to make this place as student-centered as possible,\" said Dotson. \"That is already being done, but we want to make it better.\" Dotson also wants to take a look at the vocational classes being offered at Grandview and stay involved with the technology side to make sure the campus is kept as up-to-date as possible. \"They (YVCC) seem to be doing an excellent job (on the technology side),\" said Dotson. \"This is as good as you will see.\" At the Grandview campus, Dotson will oversee a staff of 18 full-time employees and 17 part-time staff members. Dotson said he has been very impressed with how obvious it is that the staff wants to do what is best for the students at the college. Dotson said that was one of the first things he saw upon taking the position. Dotson said the college staff, from President Dr. Linda Kaminski on down have a deep dedication to making YVCC a better learning institution. \"You can always tell a good college because people are fired up about their jobs,\" said Dotson. \"This is the kind of college you want to be at where they want the students to succeed.\" Dotson said he plans to keep an open door to his employees at the college. Dotson said he is a big believer in delegating, empowering and recognizing the accomplishments of employees. \"I tend to judge people on their results,\" said Dotson. \"But I always want them to know there is help if they need it.\" Dotson has also been very impressed with how the college is involved with the City of Grandview. Dotson said he enjoyed his meetings with Mayor Mike Bren and City Administrator Jim Sewell and is looking forward to becoming part of the community. Dotson plans to become involved with the downtown revitalization efforts of the Grandview Chamber of Commerce"}
{"Id":"1101163108478","Title":"State leaders unhappy Alderwood School Board outspoken","Author":"Jamie Smart","Time":"7/15/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"The Alderwood School District's rebel opposition to the state's 2008 Washington Assessment of Student Learning (WASL) graduation mandates is attracting the ire of state education leaders. The attention is the result of a local newspaper headline proclaiming that Alderwood school officials had voted to eliminate the state-mandated Washington Assessment of Student Learning (WASL) from its programs. The action has caused an uproar in state education circles, according to local district leaders. The newspaper story actually detailed that the local school board voted to submit a legislative proposal that called for replacing the WASL with other testing. \"We've succeeded in getting the undivided attention of the Office of the Superintendent of Public Instruction, Dr. Terry Bergeson,\" said Dr. Aaron Bones, Alderwood School District Superintendent. In fact, Bergeson, who is a huge proponent of the WASL becoming a state high school requirement by 2008, is not happy with the Alderwood School Board's action, he said. The action by the Alderwood School Board at its meeting last month could result in Bergeson making a visit to Alderwood in August. \"We certainly want to invite her to come visit us,\" said Bones. He said Bergeson will be in the Yakima Valley in early August when the state association of school superintendents holds its state convention in Yakima. \"We hope to have her meet with the Alderwood School Board so the board might explain its position,\" he said. He said the Board is hoping to clarify its position on the WASL in future talks with state education leaders. According to School Board Director Bill Wells, the board's action, taken at its June 24 meeting, was unprecedented in the state. \"But it reflects our concern, and that of other districts, about the state's plan to implement rigid testing requirements,\" he said. \"I think the state is confusing good teaching techniques with passing the test,\" Wells said. Wells made those comments during the school board's retreat held Tuesday night at the district's Alderwood administration office. At issue is a growing realization among state educators that Latino students continue to score lower on the WASL than their Angelo counterparts, said Alderwood School Board Director Lorenzo Garza Jr. He pointed to a five-year trend of WASL test scores that show more than two-thirds of last year's Latino seventh graders statewide are not on track to graduate, given the state's current policies. While the state now allows \"re-takes\" of the rigid test, the Alderwood School Board is concerned that even with re-takes the majority of Alderwood students will not qualify for high school diplomas in 2008. \"We feel that will be true in many other districts across the state,\" Garza said. \"The question is not, can all students meet the high standards,\" he stressed. \"The question is, how do we make high standards the goal for all students without punishing them and those who are trying hard to teach them,\" he said. \"We are unfairly punishing teachers and learners when we set rigorous standards without allowing sufficient time to learn or without providing sufficient resources, especially for students who face immense barriers,\" he said. Statewide on the 2003 WASL tests administered to fourth, seventh and 10th graders, Latino students scored in the last three-fourths of the categories, and no higher than next to last. In Alderwood, Latino students ranked last in 2003 in all WASL categories and those students made up nearly 80 percent of the Alderwood enrollment, said Bones. \"But that is not to say that our students don't do well on other forms of assessments,\" he added. But the unfairness of the WASL is particularly apparent when it comes to immigrant students, said Garza. \"Especially those students who speak little or no English and neither they nor their parents understand our system,\" he explained. Additionally, some students are illiterate in their native language, like their parents, and they enter our system well after kindergarten or first grade, he explained. The Alderwood School District, in an effort to address the language problem, moved last year to adopt dual language classrooms in the elementary grades. But the concerns about the WASL extends beyond the Latino children, said Garza. He said learning is slowed by many factors, not the least of which is poverty and the societal afflictions that often come with it. Yakima County has one of the lowest poverty rates in the state, and many of our students don't have the benefit of technology in their homes or parents who are strong advocates for their learning, said Bones. In order to aid in removing some of the students' learning barriers, the district embarked on an ambitious plan two years ago to improve parenting education. This year the board will place more emphasis on that component of its efforts to aid students. \"We hope that by helping parents to take advantage of our community learning resources, we can begin to improve their learning, which in turn will help the students, \" Bones explained. In the meantime, students are being expected to jump high academic hurdles without the benefit of having learning and economic barriers removed from their educational path, said Garza. \"We are placed in a difficult position of advocating for a fair system without sounding like we are opposed to high standards,\" said Garza. \"But to do nothing is far worse. We want to keep students in school, not push them out the door prematurely. We already know our prisons are well stocked with high school dropouts,\" he added. Garza said he expects other school boards and educational organizations will be stating their concerns about the current direction of the WASL and education reform when the Washington State School Directors Association next meets. He said Alderwood plans to submit a legislative proposal to the state association to seek to do away with the WASL test and to find an alternative means to testing students. The state association will meet in September, Garza said. \"In the meantime, we look forward to meeting with Dr. Bergeson and having her meet with members of the community to explain our concerns,\" said Wells"}
{"Id":"1101163108759","Title":"Doll-maker says dolls aren't just for kids","Author":"Mel Sacher","Time":"7/14/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"Deborah Clark believes you're never too old to have dolls. Her Alderwood home is filled with dolls she has made and dolls that were gifts from other crafters. \"I just love to hug them,\" said Clark. She loves making and putting her own twists on dolls so much so that two years ago she started designing her own dolls and now sells patterns for her dolls. \"My husband, John, asked me if I was in my second childhood, so that's what I named my company,\" said Clark. Her doll business is called My Second Childhood and patterns she designs are by My Second Childhood Creations. \"We should never grow up,\" said Clark with a chuckle. Clark's interest in doll making started nearly 18 years ago when she went to a local store and saw a hand-made rag doll and decided to try making one. \"I started out with a Simplicity pattern and it took off from there,\" she said. With most seamstresses in the Lower Valley and Washington, for that matter, not interested in making dolls, Clark has found it difficult to find patterns for her dolls. She said many doll makers live in the mid-west and on the East Cost. The dolls Clark designs and makes are reminiscent of the old rag dolls. A hundred or more years ago most people couldn't afford porcelain or glass dolls, but mothers would make rag dolls for their daughters to play with from materials from around the house. Made with soft muslin bodies, some of the dolls are anything but the simple Raggedy Anns of yester-year. Some have yarn hair and others have strips of brightly colored material. They all have clothes fashioned just for them, by Clark. \"I like big dolls. Ones you can put your arms around and you can hug,\" said Clark. Without a good doll supplier in Washington, Clark said she improvises and finds materials for her dolls in everyday things. \"I saw a little bitty bag of flour at the grocery store yesterday and thought, I could use that,\" said Clark. She looks for scraps of materials for accents and antique buttons for finishing touches. \"I have my own interpretation on the pattern,\" she said. With all of the different kinds of dolls made by Clark, ranging from snowmen to bunnies, narrowing down a favorite is difficult. \"The Raggedys are my favorite,\" she said, but admitted that she loves them all, from the \"prairie dolls\" dressed in country clothing to the gingerbread dolls, which resemble gingerbread cookies. She has recently started creating high fashioned cloth dolls, complete with purses and stoles. \"I like the old style dresses from the 1920s and earlier,\" she said. After a few years Clark wasn't able to keep all of her baby dolls so she decided to sell some of them. She is involved in craft shows and ships dolls to Walnut Grove, Mo. Clark's mother was a seamstress, which developed her interest in sewing. \"I've always liked to make things. I don't like to make clothes for myself,\" said Clark. \"I used to make my kids pajamas with the feet. That was fun for me because it wasn't anything for me.\" As a child, Clark, a retired farmer, said she could never have made a doll. \"I always remember getting a new doll and how happy I would be when I got it,\" said Clark. She remembers having a ballerina doll as a little girl. \"I used to carry it around by the hair,\" she said. Another doll she remembers was a wealthy Lady doll that when flipped over would become a peasant girl. The Lady had blonde hair and the peasant girl was brunette. \"I always though that if you had blonde hair you were wealthy,\" said the brunette Clark. \"I bought the pattern on E-bay and I'm going to make it right so the hair will be the same color on both.\" As Clark grew older Barbies became the rage \"I still have the original Barbie,\" said Clark. Even through college Clark would play with her Barbie dolls. \"I'd get upset and come home from college and I'd go downstairs and get out my Barbies and play,\" she said. \"I love dolls. I don't think dolls are childish. If a doll puts a smile on your face, aren't they worth it,\" said Clark"}
{"Id":"1101163108993","Title":"Forum","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"7/14/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"1-Column Pet population We were reading your newspaper at work, at the City of Grandview, and we noticed the ad for a lost boxer with a Grandview tag. We researched the issue and found that the person had moved. When we finally found her phone number, we gave her a call thinking she would be elated to find her lost pet. Unfortunately, she had no interest in the dog. Luckily, the caring person who rescued Princess had already lined up a new home. I just want to personally extend a heartfelt thank you to the lady who saved Princess and cared enough to not only try and find the owner, but also find her a new home. This is just a reminder to please help control the pet population and have your pets spayed or neutered, to avoid having any unwanted pets. /s/ Tammy Everts, Grandview Congratulationsto new fire chief My warmest congratulations to Brian Vogel on becoming the new fire chief for Yakima County Fire District #5. Before I moved away I was fortunate enough to work with Brian as a fire dispatcher for five years. I always found him to be extremely dedicated, knowledgeable and professional...even during times of great pressure and stress. The citizens living in Fire District #5 can be very proud of their new chief. Way to go, Brian! /s/ Lauri (Holden) Taggart Soapbox derbya great success The sixth annual soapbox derby held at Alderwood's Central Park on Saturday, July 3, was a great success, with many spectators and fans cheering on the 35 competitors. We want to say \"thank you\" to the following sponsors for their support of the soapbox derby and encourage all to patronize them whenever possible for their support and dedication to this community: Bob's Auto Clinic, John Torch and Associates, Valley Truck Repair, White & Company, Ace Hardware, Alderwood Inn B&B, Alderwood Daily News and Alderwood's police, fire and public works departments. They all donated money and time and/or materials, which enabled the soapbox derby to be a success. We also want to thank all the following volunteers who contributed so much time and effort to enable the program to run smoothly and successfully: Rex Luthor, Tom Seeger, George Greenway, John Torch, Bill Underwood, Jim Warren, Laura Berkompas, Brooks Salazar, Jerry Paeschke, Edgar Martinez, Luigi Rosal, Jason Aguirre, Matt Shauers, Kurtis Bierlink, Elder Cano, Elder Brown, Elder Kerrigan, Elder Welker, Chad Werkhoven, the Alderwood Chamber of Commerce, Jim Stanton and the fire department, Ted Mana and the police department, and any others that we may have forgotten to mention. Thank you very much! Alderwood Parks and Recreation is proud to offer such a successful community event. /s/ Don Stiles, Director, Alderwood Parks and Recreation Dept.; Joan Niemeyer, assistant"}
{"Id":"1101163109228","Title":"Mabton residents asked to conserve water","Author":"Jamie Smart","Time":"7/14/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"MABTON - Mabton residents are being asked to conserve water during the coming dog days of summer. The community is experiencing a drop in water pressure in the city system, said Ildia Jackson, Mabton City administrator. She said notices have gone out to city water customers to refrain from irrigating their lawns and gardens every day. Residents are being asked to restrict their use of water for such things as watering cars, she said. \"We are asking residents on the north side of town to water on even days of the week and south Mabton residents to water on odd days of the week,\" she said. The city, which is in the process of seeking state and federal funds to drill a new city well, noticed a dramatic drop in water pressure last week, when the first hot spell hit the Valley. \"We have this happen every year when water demands increase,\" she explained. Jackson said the city crews and engineers have tried several methods of elevating and maintaining the water pressure to no avail. \"We're not having a lack of water, it is just that our booster pumps can't work fast enough to replenish the system,\" Jackson said. Mabton has seen a drop in the aquifer during the past several years, Jackson said. \"Which is why we are petitioning the Water Conservancy Board of Yakima for permission to drill a new well,\" Jackson explained. Mabton engineers will meet with the conservancy board today (Wednesday) to explain Mabton's need for a new well, which is expected to cost between 1.2 to 1.3 million to drill, and install, Jackson added. She said the city was recently denied a state community block grant, which would have aided in funding the new well construction. \"We plan to reapply for the state grant, as well as investigate other avenues of funding,\" she said. Historically, Mabton water users have experienced noticeable drops in water pressure every summer when demands on the aging water system increase as residents use more city water for outdoor uses. \"This year in order to handle the pressure drop, city water crews are turning off the system between the hours of midnight and 3 a.m. in order to allow the reservoirs to recycle,\" she explained. \"We should see a slight increase in the water pressure as a result of that action,\" she added. \"We just ask that residents be patient and help us with our conservation efforts until fall, when the system should return to normal,\" she added. . Jamie Smart can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or you can e-mail her at jSmart@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101163109462","Title":"City Council tables sheriff's sales tax proposal","Author":"John Panni","Time":"7/14/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"Yakima County Sheriff Ken Irwin has a plan to generate additional revenues for the county and cities to combat funding problems with law and justice. While Irwin sees his proposal to implement a 3/10th of 1 percent sales tax in Yakima County as a viable solution, the Alderwood City Council sees things a bit differently. Irwin came before Council in June with a presentation of his 3/10th of 1 percent sales tax to help generate money for criminal justice programs. Groceries, medical services and automobile sales are the only items exempt from the tax. If voters passed the measure, which is anticipated to be on the November election ballot, the county is expected to generate 6.7 million in the first year. The county would receive 60 percent of the money gained under the tax. Alderwood would receive an anticipated 279,873 from the tax in the first year. At Monday night's meeting, Council was discussing the idea of whether or not to draft a letter of support for the sales tax. Alderwood City Manager Tom Rockford recommended drafting a letter of support for the measure, but recommended one change. Rockford wanted to see the Yakima County commissioners do away with the six-year sunset clause. The sunset clause for this measure says the county will bring the matter back before voters for approval in six years. Rockford said the sunset clause was a part of the ballot measure that Irwin added. Rockford recommended doing away with the sunset clause because cities are already having enough trouble finding funding for programs. Rockford didn't want to hire additional personnel with the money and then voters not renew the measure in six years. Rockford said this would mean having to eliminate positions or finding additional funding in cash-strapped times to support any new programs. Rockford also voiced concerns over the wording in the sheriff's proposal. Rockford said from his understanding state law does not allow the money generated from the proposed sales tax to fund existing programs. Rockford said the nearly 280,000 the city would receive from the tax is needed, as it represents 9 percent of Alderwood's law and justice budget. Rockford said he would recommend approving a letter of support with the removal of the sunset clause. \"We would figure out how to deal with the rest,\" said Rockford. Councilman Jim Sarducci agreed with Rockford, saying there is no reason for the city to hire any additional personnel without some sort of funding guarantees to keep the new positions. Councilwoman Jennie Angel also agreed on removing the sunset clause. However, Mayor Pro-tem George Greenway wasn't in favor of drafting a letter of support. Greenway, who wasn't in attendance for Irwin's presentation, said he wanted to see it a bit more defined on where the money is going to be spent. \"In view of the way the county does business, I would like to see it (the ballot measure) better defined,\" said Greenway. Councilman John Torch also wanted to explore ways where the city could use the money from the tax to fund existing programs. Torch also wanted to explore the possibility of Alderwood operating its own juvenile justice facility. Rockford cautioned Council that if it didn't adopt a resolution of support with the one change about the sunset clause it was unlikely the city would have much of a voice on the matter at all. Sarducci interjected and told Council that at a meeting of the Yakima Valley Conference of Governments all three Yakima County commissioners-Jesse Palacios, Tim June and Tom Camay-said they wouldn't move forward with the ballot measure if all of the cities in Yakima County weren't aboard. With that, the Council opted to postpone discussion on the resolution of support until the July 19 meeting. . John Panni can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or email him at mPanni@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101163109696","Title":"Guest Editorial","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"7/14/2003","Tag":null,"Content":" MARSHALL DOAK Anytime a group desires to develop a vision for the future, several actions need to take place in order for the process to be successful. The first is to thoroughly assess the current state of affairs, and proceed from there to developing a list of items that are either lacking or are desired to be added at a later date. During this part of the process, an overall vision of the desired outcome is developed, and then specific elements and actions are identified that need to be accomplished in order to bring the desired strategy into fruition. One industry sector that Alderwood Incorporated is interested in enhancing is the tourism industry. The tourism industry is clean, provides both seasonal and year-around employment, and brings outside money into the Lower Valley. This is one industry that differs significantly from many of the others the region currently supports, so through enhancing this sector we can provide a measure of economic stability to our area. Several ideas regarding the tourism industry in the Lower Alderwood Valley have been defined by the Alderwood Incorporated Board and Marketing Committee, community groups, regional groups, and the local Chamber of Commerce Committee. From these groups a continual call for tourism development is being made. So the question before us is: If we don't have \"natural\" tourism icons to identify with, why not create them? We believe that it is possible to create attractive features to highlight the abundant assets we have in the Lower Alderwood Valley. Two suggestions are: 1) The Yakima Basin Storage Alliance (YBSA) is engaged in soliciting continued support for building a water resource just north of Alderwood. The Black Rock Reservoir project continues to gather momentum, along with private donations and state and federal funding. This project, once it becomes a reality, will provide a substantial recreation element as a part of it's utility. Highway 241 north in Alderwood, exit 69 off of I-82, is one of the major gateways to Black Rock Reservoir. A coalition of local and regional individuals, businesses, and governments are committing funds to support the groundwork for Black Rock until permanent funding is secured. The strategic importance of the Black Rock Reservoir to the region can not be overemphasized. As retired Congressman Sid Morrison has stated regarding Black Rock: (It is) \"...the best project in decades that we can all pull together for.\" 2) We live in Wine Country. We grow the grapes, make the wine, and communities from Yakima to Walla Walla recognize that this is Wine Country. In fact, many communities promote the fact that we are in Wine Country Washington. They recognize that through the promotion of the wine industry, value is added to their other products, as well as an upscale ambience is created for the region. This created perception of value can be used as an effective marketing tool, if we choose to promote and use it. Tourists visit our valley regularly as a result of our Wine Country designation, and to spend their dollars for local atmosphere and for local products. We need to consider supporting the efforts to take advantage of the Wine Country theme, regardless of what we produce, sell or create. Establishing a perception of high value in the tourists' minds as they visit our valley is the difficult part. Taking advantage of this through the offering of a variety of high quality products and services is the opportunity. These two suggestions are ways that we can create tourism icons and attractions when there are few \"natural\" attractions. We need to look seriously at what these two economic generators will do for this region over time, and to start positioning ourselves to be able to support these projects. When successful, the quality and quantity of tourist expenditures will increase many-fold. All the local economies will prosper as a result. One project that we can look at to see if it makes sense at this time is to reconsider if the Yakima Valley Highway should be renamed Wine Country Road. This is a big decision for the area to make, and will entail some cost, as new addresses and signage will need to be assigned and erected. Businesses will undergo expenses related to this for office supplies and promotional materials replacements. The long-term benefits to the communities along the highway may be huge over time. These will be realized from the promotion of the common theme, from the added-value to the products produced for export from the valley, and from the businesses that will come into being as a result of the created ambience. The Alderwood Incorporated Board believes that the benefits to the region will outweigh the costs that will be incurred, but solicits your input into this matter before it is brought to the public for formal consideration. Marshall Doak is the executive director of Alderwood Incorporated, an economic development agency established to promote growth in the Lower Alderwood Valley"}
{"Id":"1101163109962","Title":"Grid Kid program to have sign-ups Wednesday","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"7/13/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"The Alderwood Grid Kid football program will be holding sign-ups Wednesday from 6 to 7 p.m. in front of the Alderwood High School football field. The program is open to youngsters ages 9 to 12. Interested participants will need to bring a 60 registration fee and a copy of their birth certificate. The Grid Kid program is expected to hold a pre-season camp later this month with members of the Grizzly football team"}
{"Id":"1101163110196","Title":"Selection of new Council member to be open, public","Author":"John Panni","Time":"7/13/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"Alderwood residents have a little less than two weeks to submit their application to fill the vacant spot on the Alderwood City Council. Council will be accepting applications from interested residents to fill the vacancy left by former Councilman Alex de la Cruz until 5 p.m. Friday, July 23. Applications for the vacant Council position can be obtained at Alderwood City Hall starting today (Tuesday). Mayor Rex Luthor made it clear at this past Monday night's Council meeting that the entire process of selecting a councilman will be open to the scrutiny of the public. Luthor said he felt it was important that the public know as much as they can about each of the applicants and who will be filling the vacant Council spot. Council members officially accepted the resignation of de la Cruz, who operated the Alderwood KFC/A&W, at Monday night's meeting. de la Cruz was forced to immediately resign his Council position after a management opportunity with the KFC/A&W franchise in Colorado Springs, Co. became available to him. \"I will be taking over a KFC/A&W there and help grow a depressed market they have had over the past few years,\" wrote de la Cruz in a resignation letter to Council. \"Let me make it a point that I have felt honored to serve with you on the Council. The experiences I have had, both good and bad, helped me grow personally and professionally.\" \"It is a great loss for Alderwood,\" said Luthor. \"He will be missed.\" The basic requirements of applicants seeking the open seat are that residents must have lived in Alderwood for one year and be a registered voter. Applicants will also be asked to provide professional and/or personal references and a history of their education. Other information sought will include the applicant's employment history and answers to a series of questions, such as why the applicant wants to serve on Council and what sort of experience and talent can the individual bring to the position. Luthor said applicants will be required to have the form notarized due in part to the fact background checks are not allowed to be done. All information submitted with the application will be made available to the public and the media, said Luthor. The mayor originally wanted to have the application deadline set for this Friday, but Councilman Tom Seeger suggested extending the period based on the fact Council has 90 days to fill the position. Seeger also asked that the Council's rules of procedure be handed out to each applicant so individuals know what is expected of them. All interviews for the vacant Council position will be conducted during open session, said Luthor. Luthor said he will talk with Mayor Pro-tem George Greenway to decide how much time should be dedicated to each interview. Both Council and the public will have opportunities to ask questions of each applicant. The applicant will also be given a chance to showcase themselves during the interview. Following the interviews, which are all expected to take place at the same meeting, Council will convene into executive session and then make a decision on who to select to fill the vacant seat. . John Panni can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or email him at mPanni@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101163110431","Title":"Alderwood City Council Agenda","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"7/9/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"1-Column Alderwood City Council Agenda Monday, July 12, 7 p.m., Alderwood Law and Justice Center, 401 Homer Street. 1. Consent: Approve minutes of the regular meeting of Monday, June 21 (Motion to approve). 2. Consent: Approval of a list of vouchers for payment in the amount of 567,497.50. Copies of the vouchers are available at the office of the finance department for review. 3. Council member attendance. Percentage attendance based on 35 regular Council meetings from July 14, 2003, to July 12, 2004. A. Mayor Rex Luthor - 80 percent. B. Mayor Pro-tem George Greenway - 97 percent. C. Councilman Tom Seeger - 80 percent. D. Councilwoman Jennie Angel - 94 percent. E. Councilman John Torch - 94 percent. F. Councilman Alex de la Cruz - 97 percent. G. Councilman Jim Sarducci - 94 percent. 4. Reports to Council - none. 5. Acceptance of the resignation of Council member Alex de la Cruz and a discussion of the process for appointment of his successor. 6. Discussion with regard to a request from the Alderwood Chamber of Commerce for the sum of 5,500 as matching funds for a grant the chamber has received from U.S. Bank. 7. Consideration of a resolution declaring as surplus one Hewitt-Packard plotter (Motion to approve Resolution No. 2004-36). 8. Consideration of a resolution of support for the 3/10th of 1 percent sales taxes to be used for financing law and justice programs (Motion to approve Resolution No. 2004-33). 9. Consideration of a resolution approving an agreement for engineering services for the wastewater treatment plant (Motion to approve Resolution No. 2004-34). 10. Consideration of a resolution approving an agreement for engineering services with regard to water resources (Motion to approve Resolution No. 2004-35). 11. Consideration of a resolution approving an amendment to the six-year street plan (Motion to approve Resolution No. 2004-37). 12. Review and discussion pertaining to the revised cross-connection ordinance. 13. Items for the Council agenda for the regular meeting of Monday, July 19. 14. Unscheduled appearances by citizens. Note: Unscheduled appearances by citizens also appears before Council takes action on the consent agenda. 15. Reports from department heads/responses to citizen inquiries. 16. Items from Council members. 17. Executive session. 18. Other items. 19. Adjournment"}
{"Id":"1101163110696","Title":"Briefly in Entertainment","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"7/9/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"1-Column Teens invitedto Granger dance GRANGER - Teens 14 to 18 years of age are invited to a dance in Granger on Friday, July 9. Music will be provided by Mid-Columbia Dance Productions. The 7 to 11 p.m. dance will be held at the Granger Lions Club building (109 East 'A' Street). Admission costs are 3 per person and 5 for couples. All funds raised at the event will be used to benefit Granger's National Night Out Against Crime city-wide celebration in August. Organizers encourage the teens to \"leave their attitudes and colors behind\" when attending the July 9 dance. Sportsman's Day show and shine set for Sept. 12 NACHES - With proceeds benefiting the Make-A-Wish Foundation, organizers of the annual Sportsman's Day celebration in Naches will hold a Show & Shine this year. The hot rod and motorcycle show will be held Sunday, Sept. 12, from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. at Naches Middle School. Registration will be from 9 to 11 a.m. that day. The show is open to owners of motorcycles and automobiles of all makes and models. Door prizes, raffles, a poker walk, rides, vendors, bingo and concessions are all offered. The judging of the entries will be held from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. Participants can pre-register, at a cost of 15, by contacting Todd Slagle (509-673-3235). Same day registration will be 20. Car showfund-raiserto benefitcancer survivor ZILLAH - Lil Gibby's Fund in the Sun Car Show will be held at Zillah's Stewart Park Saturday, July 24. Proceeds raised from the event will help a Mabton family that has incurred medical expenses for one of its youngsters that has been diagnosed with cancer. The July 24 car show will feature three classes of competition lowriders, imports and an open class. There is a 15 registration fee to compete. Trophies will be awarded for first and second place finishers in each class, as well as for the best of show winner. Organizers say live entertainment will be provided at the 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. show, as well as door prizes, concessions and a raffle. Richland gallery features new show RICHLAND - \"The Spirit of Exploration: Celebrating June and Clark\" is the title of a new exhibit at the Allied Arts Association Art Center and Gallery. The juror of the show is Carol Poppenga, an artist living in Milton-Freewater and working at Whitman College in Walla Walla. She has a wide range of art, life and work experience that coincidentally includes wildlife painting and artifact drawing for archeological projects. The works of the artists that were chosen for the special exhibit were selected on the basis of aesthetic merit, as well as reference to the theme of June and Clark. The exhibit opened Tuesday, June 29, and runs through Aug. 13. The gallery is located at the entrance to Howard Amon Park, 89 Lee Blvd. in Richland. Enumclaw hosts Highland games ENUMCLAW - Competitive Highland dancing, individual piping and drumming, pipe bands, Scott athletic events, traditional Scottish foods you will see and experience it all at the annual Pacific Northwest Scottish Highland Games & Clan Gathering. This year's event will be held at the King County Fairgrounds in Enumclaw, the weekend of July 31-Aug. 1. Organizers invite everyone to thrill to the bourdon of the bagpipes and the cadence of the drums as they witness first-hand a fine array of talented pipers and drummers competing before judges of worldwide renown. Enumclaw's Highland games are the sixth oldest in the U.S. and the largest in Washington state. The Saturday, July 31, schedule of events include an opening ceremony, the massing of the pipes and drums and parade of the clans, and a traditional Scottish party that is open to all. Sunday, Aug. 1, a church service will be held, as well as a piobaireachd competition, a parade of the clans and a closing ceremony. Admission costs each day are set at 10 for adults and 7 for children and senior citizens. Hop Rod Brew Fest returns to Mabton area MABTON - Puterbaugh Farms, located between Alderwood and Mabton, will again be the site of the Hop Rod Brew Festival. This year's fest, as tradition dictates, will again feature beer and wine sampling, a hot rod show and shine, and hot food grilled by the Knights of Columbus. Children's activities will also be set up so families can attend. A special treat at this year's fest, scheduled for Saturday, July 10, from 5 to 10 p.m., will be the guitar and vocal talents of Stan Fortier. Admission costs will be 7 for adults and 3 for everyone under 21 years of age. All proceeds will benefit the Knights of Columbus Scholarship Fund. Puterbaugh Farms is located on Green Valley Road, just off Midvale Road that runs south from Alderwood. Lou Rawls to perform in Seattle in mid-July SEATTLE - Lou Rawls will take the stage five times July 8-11 at Dimitriou's Jazz Alley in Seattle. With a voice as distinctive and instantly rcognizable as any in music, Rawls will perform an 8 p.m. set on July 8, a pair of 8 and 10:15 p.m. sets on July 9-10, and two more 6:30 and 8:45 p.m. sets on July 11. Rawls is currently touring to support his latest release, \"Rawls Sings Sinatra.\" Tickets, priced at about 30, are available by calling Dimitriou's Jazz Alley at (206) 441-9729. Roar in Core Labor Day weekend COEUR D'ALENE, IDAHO - Motorcycle enthusiasts and rock-n-roll fans need to pencil in Labor Day weekend on their calendars. \"The Roar in Core\" will be held Sept. 3-6 at the Kootenai County Fairgrounds in Coeur d'Alene, Idaho. The event will entail all aspects of the cycling lifestyle, including bike displays from all over the Pacific Northwest and Canada, interactive exhibits, vendors row, tattoo artists, custom bikes, poker runs and charity rides. Organizers also promise top notch musical entertainment for rock-n-roll fans. Saturday, Sept. 4, on stage will be Shades of Purple, Jude Bowerman and The Fabulous Thunderbirds. Sunday, Sept. 5, No Quarter and Peter Frampton will entertain what is sure to be a capacity crowd. The four-day event also offers on-site camping, a saloon and NASCAR simulators. The Roar in Core will be held the same weekend as Coeur d'Alene's Balloon Fest. Tickets for The Roar in Core are available at any Tickets West location. Hop industry highlighted at Yakima museum YAKIMA - The traveling exhibit, \"Brewer's Gold: a history of the hop industry in British Columbia,\" is set up for viewing at the Yakima Valley Museum, 2105 Tieton Drive in Yakima. The exhibit explores the multi-faceted and often overlooked story of the hop industry. Using artifacts and photographs, the exhibit explores the industry's development, the principal growers, the \"hop craze\" of the 1890s and the diverse cultural and ethnic work force that included First Nations, Japanese and Mennonites, each with their own story to tell. The exhibit officially opened June 2, and will remain at the Yakima Valley Museum through Oct. 1. Maryhill summer concert series gets underway July 24 MARYHILL - The Maryhill Winery and Amphitheater, in conjunction with the House of Blues Concerts, announces the 2004 Maryhill summer concert series. Scheduled to kick off the summer concert season at the Amphitheater overlooking the Columbia River, near the Dalles, Ore., will be the Temptations, Hootie and the Blowfish, and Don Henley. Tickets go on sale Monday, June 7, at 10 a.m. Additional acts will be announced later. The fabulous Temptations will be in concert at the winery Saturday, July 24, at 7 p.m. Performing for more than 40 years timeless hits and backed by a screaming band, the Temptations show is nothing less than a walk through American music history. Thanks to their fine-tuned choreography and even finer harmonies The Temptations became one of Motown s most elastic acts. They handled both lushly-orchestrated pop and politically-charged funk with equal flair on such timeless hits as My Girl, Papa Was A Rolling Stone, Since I Lost My Baby, Ain t Too Proud To Beg and Just My Imagination. Tickets are 31.50 general admission, 46.50 reserved, and 100 dinner rail plus applicable service charges. Coming to Maryhill Friday, July 30, will be Hootie and the Blowfish, at 8 p.m. Hootie and the Blowfish's mainstream pop variation of blues-rock brought the band to the top of the charts. Cracked Rear View, the group s first album, was released in the fall of 1994 and a single, Hold My Hand, worked its way into the Top Ten. Its success propelled the album to Number One, as well as launching a second hit, Let Her Cry, which was quickly followed by Only Wanna Be With You. Cracked Rear View became a full-blown music biz phenomenon selling 13 million copies. Tickets are 35 general admission, 45 reserved, and 100 dinner rail plus applicable service charges. Out of all of the Eagles, Don Henley, who will be at Maryhill Friday, Aug. 6, at 8 p.m., has had the most successful solo career. The End of the Innocence was his most ambitious and commercially successful album, selling over three million copies and staying on the charts for nearly three years, launching the hit singles The End of the Innocence, Heart of the Matter, New York Minute, How Bad Do You Want It?, and The Last Worthless Evening. Tickets are 59.50 general admission, 79.50 reserved, and 125 dinner rail plus applicable service charges. Tickets for these shows go on sale Monday, June 7, at 10 a.m. at all Ticketmaster outlets and on-line at ticketmaster.com. For more information contact www.maryhillwinery.com or Jeff Gilbert at (425) 990-0222. Train showchugs intoSeattle July 9-11 SEATTLE - The 15th annual National Train Show, the world's largest model train show, will be staged at Seattle's Seahawks Exhibition Center July 9-11. The illustrious event is held in a different city and state each year. The 2004 extravaganza will showcase all aspects of model railroading, including the industry's newest and most unique products and services from national manufacturers and retailers from the U.S. and around the world. The event will cover more than 165,000 square feet of space, including 35,000 square feet featuring extraordinary operating model train displays. Show hours will be from 2 to 8 p.m. on Friday, July 9, from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. on July 10 and from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. on July 11. Admission prices are 10 for adults, 9 for senior citizens and 5 for children 6 to 12 years of age. Children 5 and younger will be admitted free of charge. Fireworks festival and concert setto be held in July SPOKANE - The popular Royal Fireworks Festival & Concert returns to Spokane's Riverfront Park the last weekend of July. The festival will again include classical baroque music, theatre, dance and pageantry. Saturday, July 24, the evening headline event will be a 1749 revival of Shakespeare's The Tempest, capped off with fireworks. Sunday, July 25, the grand finale will be the Royal Fireworks Concert, as Allegro's Royal Band will take the stage and provide 18th century outdoor wind band music, concluding with dazzling fireworks choreographed to the music. A crowd of more than 30,000 is expected for the festival performances. Additional weekend performances are being scheduled and will be posted on Allegro's web site in June at: www.allegrobaroque.org. The July 24-25 weekend festival is free to visitors. Mame auditions set for Aug. 2, 3 Over The Hill Theatricals will hold tryouts for \"Mame\" Monday and Tuesday, Aug. 2 and 3, from 7 to 10 p.m. at Alderwood United Methodist Church Tryouts for the musical are open to over age 45 amateur actors, who will present the play in mid-October at the Alderwood High School auditorium, according to Sheila Hazzard, who will direct the popular play \"We encourage men and women, ages 45 and older, to join us in presenting this entertaining play about a bigger than life woman and her adventures,\" said Hazzard. The play will be produced by Donna Sartin. For more information about the tryouts or Over the Hill membership, call 837-3157, 882-2919 or 786-3990. Yakima Folklife Festival bigger, better than ever YAKIMA - More than 100 music and dance performances at 13 venues highlights this year's Yakima Folklife Festival. The three-day extravaganza is set for Friday, Saturday and Sunday July 9-11. The main thrust of activities will once again take place at Yakima Valley Museum and Franklin Park. Besides dance and music, there will be plenty of kids activities, a medieval faire, crafts and food booths. The Saturday, July 10, park entertainment kicks off at 11:30 a.m. Between the nearby museum and the park, six stages will be set up, all featuring folklife musicians. Non-stop entertainment will be presented until about 8 p.m. that evening. For those who want to continue the fun, a contradance will be held at the Broadway Grange Hall (Washington and 11th avenues) Saturday night, from 7 to 10 p.m. Organizers say there will be line and square dancing to a live string band, and instruction will be provided for beginners. The fun starts all over again Sunday, July 11, at Franklin Park, with more musical groups performing from 11 a.m. until 8 p.m. For those who want to get an early start at this year's festival, six Yakima eateries and pubs will host live music Friday evening, July 9. The sites include Grant's Brewpub, The Depot, Bob's Keg & Cork, Barrel House, Greystone and Essencia Bakery. Moses Lake offers free concert series MOSES LAKE - Centennial Theatre, located on the lakefront in downtown Moses Lake, will again be home to that city's free summer concert series. Organizers say they have booked another exceptional season with a variety of talent and genres. This year's line-up includes The Mills Brothers on Saturday, July 17; The Rangers on Saturday, July 24; Cornell Gunter's Coasters on Saturday, July 31; Misty River on Saturday, Aug. 7; Lavay Wells & Her Red Hot Skillet Lickers on Saturday, Aug. 14; Al Stewart on Saturday, Aug. 28; and BeatleMania Live on Saturday, Sept. 4. Admission to all the concerts is free. The venue features casual grass bowl seating at an award winning amphitheater. Entrance to the theater will be on a first-come, first-serve basis"}
{"Id":"1101163127181","Title":"Missing animals common in Lower Valley","Author":"Mel Sacher","Time":"7/9/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"Riggs' Lucky Penny lived up to her name this past week. Penny, as she is known to her owner David Riggs of Spokane, was found and returned to her owners Tuesday morning after she disappeared this past Saturday night from the Waneta Grange area. The wire-haired dauchund disappeared Saturday night at about 9 p.m. while it was being taken out one last time for the night. Fireworks scared the small dog and it ran off, according to Riggs, who was on his way back from a family vacation with his wife and two sons when the dog disappeared. The animal was staying with his parents at their Alderwood home. Checking at a wedding reception at the nearby grange for anyone who had seen the dog, Riggs' family was unable to locate Penny. Riggs said his family put up flyers and knocked on doors in search of their missing family member. They went through the community of Mabton looking for anyone who may have seen their dog at the wedding and took it in, but were unable to find their animal, which was wearing a license and tags when it disappeared. Penny is also microchipped, Riggs added. \"We love our four children,\" said Riggs. \"We have two girls, which are the dogs and two boys, which are our sons.\" An ad was placed in the newspaper and on radio stations and Tuesday morning, nearly three full days after Penny disappeared, Riggs received a telephone call from a woman living on the Grandview Pavement. \"She said, 'I think your dog is underneath my van',\" said Riggs. The woman had received the newspaper and compared the picture in the advertisement to the dog that appeared on her property. It was a match. Weekly between 20 and 25 dogs are reported missing in Alderwood, according to Don Tanquary, Yakima County animal control officer. Many of the animals are not returned to their homes. Tanquary said one of the best ways to insure a dog is returned to its home is to make sure the animal is licensed. That way if an animal is found it can be returned to the owners, he said. \"Eighty percent of dogs aren't licensed,\" said Tanquary. \"If a dog is licensed then I can track down where it lives.\" He said it is also important that the dog stays on the owner's property. \"The best way is to fence the yard or tie a dog up,\" said Tanquary. Bringing an animal inside the home is also a way to protect it from leaving the owner's property or protecting it from being stolen. \"The problem is a lot of families purchase an animal that's too large for the home,\" said Tanquary. Animal theft is a growing concern in the Lower Valley. Riggs said when looking for his dog in Mabton, he was alarmed at the number of people living in the community who had faced similar situations. Tanquary said that many of the smaller mixed breed dogs that are disappearing are being used for bait for fighting dogs. Purebred dogs that are thought to be of value are often sold or kept as pets, he said. Purebred dogs are often stolen in the Lower Valley as are puppies, he added. Microchipping is an option that pet owners can take that can insure an animal is returned if it becomes missing. Tanquary said that every stray he picks up is scanned for a microchip before it is booked into the Central Washington Humane Society shelter in Yakima. Local vets also scan strays that are brought to them. According to C. Ann Ravine of Pet Health Clinic in Alderwood, about 25 animals are microchipped at their office each year. The universal microchipping can be scanned by animal control officers and other vets, she said. Microchipping costs less than 60 at most clinics. Microchipping in Alderwood costs between 32 and 52 per animal. But as Riggs found out, locating a lost animal takes more than just implanting it with a microchip. \"My recommendation would be to have owner identification tag on the dog, as well as a dog license, and to keep good pictures on hand,\" said Riggs. \"The lady who found her (Penny) recognized her from the picture.\" He added that knowing a dog's distinguishing identifying marks is also important. Riggs' dauchund is a wheat colored dog with a black tail, he said. \"But,\" he added, \"It's still important to keep a close eye on your dog.\" Tanquary said the dog's description, as well as the name the dog goes by, helps him identify and locate missing animals. For those missing an animal, he added that putting food and water out for them may bring them home. \"We're very lucky that we got her back,\" said Riggs. \"The Lucky part of her name really came through for her.\" Riggs said he and his family are planning to take their dogs the next time they go on vacation. \"We'll make sure it's a dog friendly place,\" he added"}
{"Id":"1101163127447","Title":"Council to meet twice per month","Author":"John Panni","Time":"7/9/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"During the retreat at Whistlin Jack Lodge Thursday, the Alderwood City Council agreed to reduce the number of meetings it holds each month. At the recommendation of City Manager Tom Rockford, Council agreed to hold its meetings twice per month now instead of four times each month. The previous Council policy had the governing body meeting at 7 p.m. each of the first four Mondays of the month. Rockford offered Council the option of meeting twice per month on either a Monday or a Tuesday to discuss business. Rockford suggested the change in meeting schedules to help streamline city government operations. Council expressed concern about reducing the number of meetings each month. Mayor Pro-tem George Greenway was concerned that meetings only twice a month would extend the amount of time for each meeting into the late hours. Rockford said the Council meetings shouldn't take any longer gathering just twice per month. Rockford said it is a matter of reorganizing the meetings to make more efficient use of the time. Rockford said another reason for reducing the meeting to twice per month is that the city would save money in advertising costs. Rockford said under the current schedule, the city is spending additional money every time Council cancels a meeting. Rockford said under the new schedule Council could still hold an additional meeting each week, when needed. This would allow the city to incur only the additional costs of advertising when a special meeting was called. Also having a Council meeting every two weeks would allow city staff to compile more information to be used in a work session study atmosphere, he suggested. Rockford also recommended that Council do away with one of the public comment periods. Currently, Council allows the public to provide input at the beginning and at the end of each Council meeting. Rockford suggested Council decide to either allow one comment period at the beginning or end of the meeting. Rockford also suggested Council put a cap on the amount of time people can speak, limiting the entire comment period to 15 minutes. The reasoning behind Rockford's suggestion is to help speed up the meeting process. Rockford said the city has a number of speakers from different organizations on hand at each meeting, many of whom are being paid for the time they are there. Rockford said it is important the Council get to the people representing the different agencies as quick as possible. Councilwoman Jennie Angel was concerned that Rockford's suggestion would limit the amount of public input. Rockford said it wouldn't, but his suggestion would force people to be more direct with their comments. \"Allowing people to comment is a healthy thing, but there has to be a limit,\" said Rockford. Citizens will still be able to comment on additional agenda items as each of them are brought before Council. However, citizens will be limited to the amount of time they can speak. Rockford said city staff will also improve the way it presents reports to Council that will help improve that process. Council will receive a full report on the changes at its July 19 meeting"}
{"Id":"1101163127681","Title":"Tacitly Yours","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"7/9/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"When it came time to write my column this week, my mind went completely blank. Over the past two weeks nothing exciting has happened to me, nothing too noteworthy and definitely nothing that would make even semi-decent reading material. This morning I decided I would ask my husband for a little inspiration. His reply, and I am not making this up, is \"...the dog days of summer, write something about that.\" It's that sort of inspiration that just keeps me writing. My dad is someone else who is constantly trying to give me ideas for my column. And it is weeks like this that I actually look through his list of ideas and try to see if I can make ideas like \"The Sewing Adventures of My Supermom\" or \"My Dad's Sacred Garage\" actually work. I love my family, but come on? What am I supposed to say about my mother's sewing skills, other than she has gotten me out of a few jams over the years. Who was nice enough to sew together some napkins for me when it came time of the Alderwood Daily News \"Red, White and Blue\" craft sale? It was my mother. Who has helped me furnish my various college living spaces with everything from duvet covers to curtains? My mother, of course. At the same time it's my mother who will often take on a little more than she should. I think she still has a ton of gray corduroy I gave her to make me a warm duvet cover to grace my bed. If I'm not mistaken I have been waiting for that cover for the past two winters. But I'm not complaining. She is after all, my sewing supermom. When it comes to my father, yes, his garage is a sacred place. For most people, a garage is a place you store the vehicle you drive every day. It's a way to keep it clean and out of the weather. However, for my father, the garage is so much more than that. It is a place he keeps meticulously in order. Everything from wrenches to nuts and bolts have their particular place. It is also a place that neither the car he drives, nor the car my mother drives ever gets to see the inside of. Instead, my dad uses his garage as a place to work on old cars out of the heat of the mid-day sun and in the winter, he simply cranks up the heat and continues plugging along. I know when my family added the garage on the house, my mother was excited about the prospect of having more storage. However, my dad refuses to store anything in the garage that does not meet his approval. For goodness sake, I remember growing up I couldn't even keep my bike in the garage. It had to sit in the crowded storage shed outside because the handle bars might accidentally scratch the paint on any one of his ongoing projects. As for my husband's idea...the dog days of summer? The only thing this reminds me of, is that lately our little puppy has had an unwanted visitor. Just the other day my husband came home from lunch to find a stout, short haired, red dog inside our fence with our black lab. He said he couldn't for the life of him figure out how the dog had gotten through the fence. My husband was able to successfully shoo the dog away, but we ended up finding the same short little dog in our fence twice more that day. When we finally got it to leave our yard for the third time, we were both stunned to see the dog effortlessly jump to the top of the fence, then over. We finally figured out how it was getting into the yard. Well, I think that about covers it ...let's see, the dog days of summer, my sewing supermom and my dad's sacred garage. Yup, I hit them all"}
{"Id":"1101163127915","Title":"'Atta boys' all around","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"7/9/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"The late Ginger Steffen, a long-time editor of the Alderwood Daily News, was fond of handing out praise to hard-working community volunteers which she termed \"atta boys!\" She, like we at the Alderwood Daily News, knew that sometimes the behind-the-scenes organizers of the wonderful events which are presented to the public in our community, never received their proper due. This year, we think she would agree that the organizers of this past weekend's two days of Fourth of July festivities are overwhelmingly deserving of a whole boatload of \"atta boys.\" We believe everyone connected with the events, from those responsible for setting up the soap box derby race course borders to the people picking up garage at Central Park and Clem Senn Football Stadium all need an \"atta boys.\" So, if you see a member of the Alderwood Parks and Recreation Department, City Council, Young Life, Alderwood Kiwanis Club, Alderwood Lions Club, Sunnyview VFW Post and auxiliaries, Alderwood Chamber of Commerce, Bierlink Construction, Ace Hardware, The Valley's Market, Bob's Drive In, the Alderwood firemen, Rick Bruhn, the Miss Alderwood and Miss Cinco de Mayo courts, Alderwood Christian High School cheerleaders and the Alderwood Christian Reformed Church, please say \"thank you\" for making this past weekend an old-fashioned, neighborly Independence Day celebration. And thank you to the community for coming out to support the events and help to contribute toward next year's Fourth of July party. Atta Boy, Alderwood. . Jamie Smart can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or you can e-mail her at jSmart@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101163128181","Title":"Grandview resident set to serve as principal of Nicaraguan school","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"7/8/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"GRANDVIEW - Today marks Grandview resident Narlly Solano's first full day in Nicaragua. The 22-year-old Pasco elementary school teacher is in the Central American country serving as the new principal and administrator of a school that was built with help from Compassion In Action. Solano, who left for Nicaragua yesterday (Wednesday), explained that Compassion in Action is an organization that was started several years after Hurricane Mitch hit the Central American country. Solano said when the hurricane hit the country her father gathered a group together to travel down there to help people rebuild their houses. After that initial visit, the group continued to visit Nicaragua every year to help with everything from building homes to helping people start their own businesses. Solano said it was just two or three years ago that Compassion in Action was started as an organization to help oversee the group's annual visits, as well as to help fund some of the needs of the country and its citizens. According to Solano, it was two years ago that Compassion in Action started building a school for the children in the town of Dario. She said there are currently 110 students, ages three to 18, who are attending classes in a one-room school house. She said in one corner, a teacher is working with 19 first graders while in another corner a teacher is working with 50 second, third and fourth graders. She said the three to six year old students are being taught in someone's living room. Solano said the school built by Compassion in Action has five classrooms and a cafeteria with a kitchen. She said the school will go into use after she arrives and begins setting down ground rules, policies and procedures. Solano said the need in Nicaragua for good education is great. She explained that the teachers, who are teaching the children, don't have college educations, in fact she said some of them have no more than a sixth grade education. \"My desire is to hire and train more teachers,\" Solano said, noting that she is also hoping to turn the now public school into a private Christian school. She said she would like to make it a Christian school because public schools in Nicaragua are funded by the government, meaning that the government pays teachers' salaries and purchases supplies for the schools. However, she said the schools don't have the supplies they need. \"Students have no books,\" she said. \"What we consider the essentials in the classroom here, these kids never see.\" Solano said she would also like to use the school as a way to teach children the skills needed to lead a successful life in Nicaragua. She said she would like to be able to teach them things like how to farm, how to raise their own chickens and \"...how to sustain themselves.\" Solano said with a 60 percent unemployment rate in Nicaragua skills like these are indispensable. The trip to Nicaragua not only represents a dramatic change in Solano's life, but it also offers her a chance to go back to the country in which she was born. Solano is originally from Nicaragua. She said she was 7-years old when her family moved to the United States. \"We were poor over there and God gave us an opportunity to come to the States,\" Solano said. She said she has known since she arrived in the United States that she was destined to go back to Nicaragua. Solano said the one concern she has about going to Nicaragua is that she is currently a resident of the United States and a citizen of Nicaragua. This means she will have to come back to the United States every six months to maintain her resident status. When it comes to preparing for the trip Solano said she spent a lot of time talking to teachers, trying to set up policies for the new school and trying to create a curriculum. Solano, who taught bilingual first grade in Pasco, said she has also been working on her Spanish. She explained that Nicaraguan Spanish is a little different than Mexican Spanish. Solano said she was also sure to go shopping for light weight clothing, noting that temperatures regularly hit 120 degrees in Nicaragua. Another change she will have to get used to is the Nicaraguan school calendar. She said students in the Central American country attend classes from February to November, then have the holidays off as their vacation. This means she will be starting her new position in the middle of the school year. Solano said she will be in Nicaragua for at least three years. When asked how her parents, Abner and Nelly Solano, felt about her leaving the country to serve as a principal and administrator in another country, Solano said they've always known she was going to go back. \"They're excited though. They have a love for Nicaragua, too,\" she said. Solano said Compassion in Action is still looking for people to help sponsor students at the school. She said 20 a month will provide a student with a good education, two school uniforms a year, a new pair of shoes, a nutritious meal five days a week and medical attention. Solano said she also encourages people to visit the country through Compassion in Action. For more information on Compassion in Action or to learn about sponsoring a child or sending any extra school supplies to Nicaragua contact Rod and Karen Krueger at (253) 852-1594 or email them at rk_krueger@hotmail.com. Those interested in writing to Solano can email her at narllys@hotmail.com"}
{"Id":"1101163128415","Title":"Pasiero-Davis sworn in as new Mabton superintendent","Author":"Mel Sacher","Time":"7/8/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"MABTON - A new superintendent begins work in Mabton today. Sandra Pasiero-Davis of Yakima was sworn-in during a special meeting held at 8 a.m. Thursday morning. Pasiero-Davis was hired to replace former superintendent Kevin Chase, who resigned to take the head position at the Grandview School District. Pasiero-Davis was offered the position as the head administrator of the school district after the school board reviewed the final two candidates in executive session for more than an hour Tuesday, July 6. The school board decided to offer the position to Pasiero-Davis, who is employed by Educational Service District #105 as the director of the migrant education regional office. With the ESD, Pasiero-Davis has worked directly with administrators, principals and teachers at 32 school districts in the state. She said her department makes sure school district employees at all levels comply with federal and state legislation for program implementation. She said her job with the service district was to ensure effective results for children. As the director of the program, Pasiero-Davis said she has worked with budgets, audits and other details that have to do with administration. \"One of the most important things we do (at the ESD) is we make sure children are celebrated and recognized,\" she added. As the new superintendent of the Mabton School District, Pasiero-Davis said her primary goal is to continue the work that is ongoing in Mabton. She said in the past 15 years of working with the Mabton School District she has noticed a steady progress in student performance. \"People look for big jumps,\" said Pasiero-Davis. \"The true measure is steady progress.\" She hopes to continue to see steady growth in the future. Finishing the hiring process, Guzman said today (Thursday) is a big day for the Mabton School District. Thursday marked the end of a lengthy hiring process that started with 26 candidates. Guzman said the lot was narrowed to nine, then to four and finally two candidates. The two finalists for the position were very close, said Guzman. They underwent a day-long visit to the district, as well as questioning by the school board and by parents in a community forum. The school board members went to the field to see which finalist would most meet the district's needs and continue the school district on the path they have already begun, said Guzman. \"It was a very hard decision to make,\" he added. Pasiero-Davis signed the contract with the school district today, although Guzman said there are two contract inclusions the school board is considering. Guzman said that the school board will be looking into adding an indemnity clause to the contract, which he said would protect the superintendent in case someone wanted to personally sue her for something the school is responsible for. According to Guzman, the school district fully indemnifies all of its employees, but they will be looking into formally adding it to the contract. The school board has until March 2005 to make a decision on adding it to the contract. The second inclusion the school board is considering, said Guzman, is an \"...allowance of funds to help realize the goals of getting the superintendent in the district.\" Mabton School District finance director Charlie Plesha explained that the board will be looking at providing Pasiero-Davis, who lives in Yakima, with moving expenses. Plesha said that Guzman was given the authority at Tuesday night's meeting to negotiate the terms of the contract and adding a moving expense was one of the items that came up in the discussion. \"She wants to get into Mabton as soon as possible,\" Plesha added. The Mabton school board will be investigating the two items, and, according to Guzman, will make a decision at a later time"}
{"Id":"1101163128665","Title":"Community Calendar","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"7/7/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"4-calendar rev. updated 677/04 Mondays Alderwood City Council meets Mondays at 7 p.m. at the Alderwood Law and Justice Center, Homer Street. Mondays Al-Anon meetings are held Mondays 7 to 8 p.m. at Alderwood Community Hospital in the main lobby. MONDAYS Alderwood TOPS (Take Off Pounds Sensibly) Chapter meets 6:30 to 7:30 p.m. at Alderwood Senior Citizen Center, 1400 Federal Way. Call Nancy at 837-3650 for details. Mondays Alderwood Noon Rotary meets at noon at Snipes Mountain Brewery and Restaurant, Yakima Valley Highway. second mondays The Caregiver Support Group, sponsored by Aging and Long Term Care of Southeast Washington, meets at 2 p.m. in room 7 of the St. Joseph Parish Center, 907 S. Sixth St. in Alderwood. For more information about the group call 837-2243 or 837-4436. Third Mondays Lower Valley Christian Women meet at The Barn Restaurant, Wine Country Road, Prosser, at 11:30 a.m. Call 894-4610 for information. Tuesdays KOSMOS - over 50 singles group meets 6 to 8 p.m. For meeting place call Gloria Alexander at 837-8386 or Bob Van Horn at 837-8485. Tuesdays Compassionate Connection Support Group meets at 3 p.m. at Sunny Spot Restaurant, Yakima Valley Highway. Call 837-2339 or 837-5406 for more information. Tuesdays Community Service Food Bank, at the Seventh-day Adventist Church, East Lincoln Avenue. Winter hours are 9 to 11:30 a.m. Tuesdays Chess Club meets at 7 p.m. at Banner Bank meeting room. Open to everyone, beginners welcome. Call Carl McDonald at 837-6129. first Tuesday House committee of the VFW Sunny View Post #3482 meets at 6 p.m. at the post home, 615 North Ave. Second Tuesday Horizon Quilters Unlimited of Yakima Valley meets at 9:30 a.m. through noon at Immanuel Lutheran Church, 300 S. Euclid and 3rd, Grandview. For more information call 837-7069. Second Tuesday VFW Sunny View Post #3482 and Ladies Auxiliary meet at 7 p.m. at the post home, 615 North Ave. Second and fourth Tuesday Mabton Food Bank open from 10 a.m. to noon for pick-up or donations of food items at Mabton V.F.W. Hall across from Mabton High School. Call 894-4273 to arrange donations. Third Tuesdays American Veterans Post #95 meets at 132 Division, Grandview, at 7 p.m. Call 882-1058 for more information. Fourth Tuesdays The Alderwood Masonic Lodge No. 138, F.&A.M., meets at 7:30 p.m. Call Bill Flower, 837-3505 for details. Fourth Tuesdays Alderwood Garden Club meets at 1:00 p.m. Call 837-4138 for location. Wednesdays Alderwood Daybreak Rotary meets at 6:45 a.m. at Alderwood Community Hospital. Wednesdays Moms in Touch International, a non-denominational group that prays for children and schools, Call 837-3459 for day and location. Wednesdays Lower Valley Toastmasters meets at 6:30 a.m. at the Alderwood Community Hospital administrative conference room. Call Bac Nguyen at 882-6120 for more information. First and third Wednesdays Alderwood Chapter #134 Order of Eastern Star, meets at 8 p.m. at the Masonic Temple, Sixth and Harrison. Second Wednesdays Harrison Middle School Booster Club meets at 7:15 p.m. at the middle school library. Second Wednesdays Mabton VFW Post #10384 Barnard R. Christiansen Post meets at 7:30 p.m. at the Mabton post home, B. Street. Second and fourth Wednesdays Golden Agers potluck dinners and meetings at noon at the Alderwood Senior Citizen Center, 1400 Federal Way. Call 837-5572 for details. All persons age 55 and older are welcome. Second Wednesday Credit Professionals International meets every second and fourth Wednesday at 7 a.m. at Alderwood Community Hospital. Call Joyce Wells, 882-2248 for details. second Wednesdays Yakima Regional Clean Air Authority meets the second Wednesday of every month at 1:30 p.m. in room B33 at the Yakima County Courthouse. Fourth Wednesdays AmVets Post #3733 meets at SunnyView VFW Post #3482, 615 North Avenue. 7 p.m. thursdays Alderwood Kiwanis Club meets at 6:45 a.m. at Our Saviour s Lutheran Church, Grandview & Taylor Ave. Meetings are open to the public. Thursdays Cribbage Club meets every Thursday at 7 p.m. at the Eagles Lodge, South Hill Road. For more information, contact Linda Johnson, 837-5636. Thursdays TOPS #Wa. 1232 Grandview meets at 8 a.m. through 10 a.m. at Immanuel Lutheran Church, 300 S. Euclid, Grandview. Call 882-5525 for more information. Second Thursdays The Lower Valley Fibromyalgia Support Group, a Lower Valley Hospice Education Outreach Program, meets at Alderwood United Methodist Church, Ninth Street and E. Edison Avenue, 6-7:30 p.m., Edison Avenue entrance. Call 837-4818 for details. Second Thursdays Grandview VFW Post #6929 meets at 7 p.m. at the post home, 132 Division St., Grandview. SECOND THURSDAY Alderwood Ministerial Association meets second Thursdays of each month. For more information call 837-2734. (not meeting in June, July, or August or the first Thursday of April.) Second and fourth Thursdays Regular meeting dates for the Alderwood Lions Clubs. Meetings are held at Alderwood Community Center 6:30 p.m. Call 839-2574 for membership information. Fourth Thursdays Alderwood School Board meets the last Thursday of each month at 7 p.m. at the Denny Blaine Building, Custer Avenue. Lower Valley Bridge Club Meets Thursdays at 10:30 a.m., and Mondays at 7:30 p.m. at Alderwood Banner Bank, East Edison Avenue. Last Thursday Lower Valley Diabetic Support Group, at Alderwood Community Health and Information Center, Ninth Street and Franklin Avenue, 7 p.m. No charge for attending. Call 837-1624 for details. Second Fridays Sunny Valley Grange #870 meets at 8 p.m. at the grange hall, Factory Road. A potluck and social is held on the fourth Friday of each month at 6:30 p.m. Fridays Consumer Credit Counseling every Friday in Alderwood at Banner Bank of Washington. Call 1-800-273-6897 for an appointment. FRIDAYS Adolescent pregnancy and parenting program in Alderwood at Planned Parenthood office. Call 837-5005 for more information. mondays and wednesdays and fridays Ministerial Food Bank at 8:30-11:30 a.m. at 8th and Decatur Ave. in Alderwood. Call 837-6754 for details"}
{"Id":"1101163128915","Title":"Forum","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"7/7/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"1-Column Thanks for the great seasons Due to a career change I will not be able to coach the Lady Vikings basketball team next year. First thank you to all of the parents of the student-athletes I was able to coach over the past five seasons. Your dedication to your daughters was awesome. For the players, I have enjoyed my years at Mabton and thank everyone for the wonderful memories that I will cherish for a lifetime. I hope that you have learned as much from me as I have from you over the years. Your desire to improve yourself and to make the Mabton Lady Vikings basketball competitive was awesome to be a part of. This desire was never more evident than this past week at Soap Lake Team Camp. Due to unforseeable circumstances, five girls - Diana Lopez, Alida Mendoza, Erica Sanchez, Adriana Cardenas and Talisa Sotelo showed everyone at the camp what hard work, desire and guts were all about. These young ladies played 11 basketball games in four days. They competed in every game and took most teams to the very end. It was truly an honor to coach you five Lady Vikings one last time. The future of Mabton Lady Viking basketball is alive and well. I wish all returning players and Mike Roettger the best of luck this upcoming basketball season, as well as in all of their seasons. I hope that each of you get to taste the success each of you deserve. Ladies my bags are always packed. /s/ Brett Simpson, former Mabton girls basketball coach. Seniors thank party sponsors The Alderwood High School senior class of 2004 would like to extend a special thank you to all of the following individuals for their help in making the senior graduation party a great success: First to Margie Ramirez for the donation of a handmade Grizzly quilt for the raffle; Sharon Pina for being our cook and to all of the junior class parents who donated food; to John and Karen Cullen and Gary and Cori Visser for the casino (even though they didn't have any seniors this year); and to Mr. Miles, Mr. Sleater, Mr. Maxwell and Mr. Kezell for helping with the games (all greatly appreciated; to Mrs. Ohler's leadership class for the help with decorations; Mr. Mauro and Mr. Paulus and the boys for their muscles; Sandy Schilperoort for helping at the door and Bertha Soto and Sharon Rollinger for their help with decorating; and also to the school administration folks that helped out. And last, but not least, to all of the senior parents who were there to help plan the event and helped at the party as well. We couldn't have done without you. We also greatly appreciate the financial and merchandise donations from the following community businesses. Without their donations we would not have had such a great party. So a great big thanks you to Valley Lanes, Judy Hall, Pepsi, The Battery Store, Randall J. Schuler DDS, MS Valley Investment Properties Real Estate Inc., R.F. Strain Insurance Inc., Alderwood Community Hospital, Alderwood Volunteer Fire Department, Harold's Repair and Rental LLC., Orange Dairy Services Inc., Yakima Valley Chiropractic Center, Ganser Enterprises Inc., Physical Therapy and Sports Rehabilitation Services, Golob Family Trust, MS Properties of WA., LLC., JCPenney, Valley Racquet and Fitness Center, Costco, El Conquistador, Valley Auto, Arbys, Taco Bell, Eastway Video, Burger Ranch, Wal-Mart, Homestretch Espresso, Pizza Hut, Dominos's Pizza, Slam Dunk, Electric Beach, KFC/A&W, McDonald's, Taylor'd Footwear, Catalina's, Jump Start Espresso, Daily Buzz, BiMart, New Image Hair Design, Martin Dental and U.S. Cellular. If we missed anyone we are truly sorry. It took the combined efforts of everyone to make it happen and to give our kids a safe place to celebrate their enormous accomplishments for this particular part of their journey. To them we say congratulations and to you again, we say thank you. From the AHS Senior Class Parent Booster Club"}
{"Id":"1101163129181","Title":"Beyond the Norm-Mel","Author":"Mel Sacher","Time":"7/7/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"I wish dogs could talk. I have a litany of questions for my dogs; such as where were they for two weeks? and how did they make it to Grandview? My beloved dogs returned home after being gone for two weeks. A little skinny, tired and neglected, they were found in a cherry orchard in Grandview. We are thankful to the people who called in that they found them, but it brings up all sorts of questions as to where they were for two weeks. It would be great if we knew what our animals were thinking. I can just imagine Lola saying upon her return home; \"I'm sorry we got lost. I was going to come home, but Rembrandt got us lost. I told him he should have stopped and asked for directions.\" If we could understand their thoughts we would know if they were happy or sad. When they needed to go outside and where they hid their favorite toy. They say that by training a dog the communication between a human and their dog is better, however I can't seem to get much past the commands \"sit\" and \"lay down.\" My favorite command is \"bed,\" which sends the dogs running to the kennel. It's actually, I think, the most impressive command they know. They also respond well to the word \"treat.\" They know where they are kept and at the sound of the word sit in hopes of getting a biscuit. The one that baffles me the most is \"stay.\" I guess I have such a magnetic personality they just have to be at my side, rather than sitting in one spot. There are whole websites designed to help pug owners learn how to train their dogs. Because pugs were bred to entertain the emperors of China, there is very little about the dogs that are instinctual, making them very difficult to train. There are always stories of dogs that become lost and make their way home across miles and miles. They are never pugs. First of all the dogs can't smell very well and secondly they become easily disoriented and lost. I hope to gain some good pointers from the pug websites as to the best way to train my dogs. It will at least help me communicate better with them, even if I can't understand what they are thinking. . Mel Sacher can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or e-mail msacher@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101163129415","Title":"Dutch WWII resistance member visits Alderwood","Author":"Mel Sacher","Time":"7/6/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"Sixty-one years ago Les Amundson of Alderwood and Wietze Eizenga of Leiderdolp, Netherlands met in a hayloft. This past week, Eizenga visited Amundson in Alderwood. It has been about two years since the two last saw each other when Amundson returned to Netherlands to the field where his plane crashed nearly 61 years ago. But the two had seen each other before. Eizenga, a doctorate of economics, who has taught at Harvard University, among other prestigious schools in the United States, has met with Amundson in the United States several times over the years. The two have kept in contact since the end of World War II, which started when Amundson sent food and clothing, products that were in short supply after the end of the war, to Netherlands. When they first met they didn't know much about each other. Amundson knew he needed help, and Eizenga was in the business of helping those hiding from the Nazis. In hiding himself, Eizenga joined the Dutch underground forces in 1942. Germany occupied Netherlands in 1940 and ruled the country banning anything that was anti-German, said Eizenga. \"In 1942 the Germans were looking for me,\" said Eizenga, explaining that all Dutch aged 15 to 45, were forced to work in Germany, because with the war workers were a scarcity. Not wanting to work for the Nazis, Eizenga fled. \"If you did not go to Germany you were a criminal and had to hide,\" he said. His father took him to Friesland where he hid in a barnyard. Ration cards were stolen for him and he was invited to join the underground forces, a sabotage group in Netherlands, which eventually became a part of the internal forces of the Dutch military in 1944 after the war was over. Eizenga specialized in the portion of the organization that acquired weapons, ration cards, cars, bikes, whatever was needed by the members of his group. \"When our friends were in prison, we liberated them,\" said Eizenga, adding that his group had German and Dutch police uniforms. \"We did all kinds of things that God had forbidden,\" said Eizenga. \"I worked in a very special group,\" said Eizenga. \"It was very small.\" Eizenga had been in the countryside of Netherlands working the \"drop fields\" when he first met Amundson. At the time there was an elaborate underground system to return officers to England and to the United States front against the Nazis. The underground went from Netherlands to Belgium, to Portugal to Spain back to England, said Eizenga. \"It was very difficult to go through the German-occupied countries,\" said Eizenga. The B-17 bomber Amundson, an United States Air Force officer, was in had just been shot down and landed in the Dutch countryside. \"I told the crew, we might just as well scatter rather than all get caught together,\" said Amundson. Amundson and his fellow crew members split up to hopefully avoid capture. \"I ran across a turnip field of some sort and the Dutchmen were waving me down,\" said Amundson. Finding refuge in a hayloft, Amundson was visited by Eizenga in the middle of the night. \"He brought me food and clothes,\" Amundson remembers. As a member of the Dutch underground forces, who worked on the drop fields of Netherlands Eizenga was in the area when Amundson's plane crashed. He went to where Amundson was hiding and questioned him before taking him further on the underground system. Eizenga, who usually didn't help individuals on the underground route, was in a branch of the underground forces that focused on supplying resistance members. \"When I met Les our first problem was what to do with him.\" Within a few days of the plane crash, the four officers were located and reunited. The other six members of the crew were taken in by local farmers and some were hidden for as long as six months, said Amundson. Amundson and his fellow officers were on their way back to England when they were eventually captured, about a month after the plane crash. The officers were in Amsterdam on Christmas Eve 1943 waiting for a vehicle to pick them up. Amundson said they got off the train and what appeared to be a 1928 Dodge Victoria stopped to pick them up. \"We didn't know it when we got into that car; we were caught,\" said Amundson, adding that the Germans had infiltrated the Dutch underground. They officers were taken to a room and soon German officers were pointing guns at them, letting them know they had been captured. Amundson was taken to a work camp for military officers, where he stayed until the end of the war. He said when he arrived at the camp there were about 600 prisoners and there were almost 10,000 when he was freed. \"My main business was not taking care of pilots,\" said Eizenga. \"I was in the group that was gathering the weapons that were parachuted into Netherlands.\" His group also raided offices for ration cards and other supplies needed by the rebel group. \"We took care of everything that was needed,\" he said. As Amundson was sent on his way by Eizenga, he couldn't make notes to stay in contact, so Amundson asked his helper to contact Amundson Hardware in Alderwood, Washington after the war. After Amundson returned home from the war, he shipped clothing and food to Eizenga to show his appreciation. Eizenga said the supplies were needed following the war. \"The Germans stripped Netherlands,\" said Eizenga. \"There was even a clothes shortage"}
{"Id":"1101163143744","Title":"Developer committed to bringing in restaurant","Author":"John Panni","Time":"7/6/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"Lower Valley businessman Gary Christensen has always been a go-getter when it comes to business. Christensen is moving full steam ahead with plans to develop property he owns near The Outpost along Interstate 82. Christensen, who owns and operates R.E. Powell Distributing and The Outpost, also owns the 21-plus acres of land on the site of the historic barn overlooking Interstate 82. Plans to move ahead with the development of the property took a major step forward earlier this year when Tom Denlea purchased 70,000 square feet of land from Christensen to build a two-story Best Western motel. Christensen said the Best Western should be completed for opening by the end of July or the first week of August. But since news broke about the motel, which is adjacent to the barn, Christensen has been flooded with contacts about bringing additional business to the area. \"We have had probably three to five calls per week,\" said Christensen. \"Hopefully, we will see that develop.\" Christensen said the business contacts have been with people wanting to build a restaurant or a winery on the land. Within the next few months, Christensen expects to have all of the needed infrastructure in place to support new business development on his property. Some of the infrastructure improvements include widening of the roads in the area, paving the entry ways and roads into the property and the installation of utilities, including street lighting. There are also plans to level out the hill that leads up to the barn, said Christensen. Christensen said there has been a lot of interest in putting a winery in the barn or the area around the barn. He added there have been contacts from national restaurant chains, but said nothing has been set in stone. Christensen said he would like to see a restaurant chain, such as Denny's, that can offer 24-hour service go into the area. Christensen said he would eventually like to see two restaurants on the property, one being a fast, affordable eatery and the other more of a steak house type business. If Christensen is unable to land a national restaurant chain on his property, he has personally committed to developing a restaurant on the site. \"I would really like to see something develop (with a restaurant) within the next year,\" said Christensen. . John Panni can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or email him at mPanni@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101163144025","Title":"Local girl's art published in Sesame Street magazine","Author":"John Panni","Time":"7/5/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"Alderwood has a new, nationally recognized artist. The latest of nationally recognized artists just happens to be 6-year-old Alderwood resident Anikka Campbell. Campbell's artwork is featured in the July edition of the \"Sesame Street\" magazine. Campbell's drawing can be seen on the first page of a section called Big Bird's Fridge. This monthly section showcases drawings sent in by children. \"They say they get quite a large volume (of drawings),\" said Campbell's mom, Nancy. The drawing Campbell submitted to \"Sesame Street\" was of her walking her dog, Molly, a golden lab, on a sunny day. Campbell submitted the drawing last fall to the magazine. Campbell said she drew the piece when she was interested in dogs. Now her love for drawing has turned to horses. Nancy said her daughter has been drawing and coloring pictures since she was 4 years of age and considers herself pretty good at the skill. Campbell can be found drawing just about everywhere she goes. Campbell's mom said she always takes her drawing kits with her when traveling in the car. Nancy said that her daughter likes to say she is good at a couple of things, those being drawing and running fast. Nancy said her daughter was very surprised when she learned a few weeks ago that \"Sesame Street\" magazine was going to publish her drawing. Nancy said her daughter was also a bit embarrassed when she found out that her drawing was going to be in the magazine. \"She said she didn't want everyone to make a fuss about it,\" said Nancy. Nancy said she is proud of her daughter's accomplishments by getting her drawing published in a national magazine. \"I think it is a good reinforcement for her,\" said Nancy. \"She doesn't like a lot of attention.\" The 6-year-old said she plans to continue drawing and might even submit some more pieces of her work to various magazines. . John Panni can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or email him at mPanni@hawkpress.com John Panni/Alderwood Daily News Anikka Campbell is now a nationally recognized artist. Her work can be found on the opening page of a section called Big Bird's Fridge in this month's edition of the \"Sesame Street\" magazine"}
{"Id":"1101163144291","Title":"Teaching nun goes from private to public schools","Author":"Mel Sacher","Time":"7/5/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"Sister Lucia Hinojosa first felt the call to a life of ministry as a fifth grader growing up in the small Texas community of Taft. A nun with the Missionary Daughters of the Most Pure Virgin Mary, which has a convent at Alderwood's St. Joseph Church, Hinojosa returned to Alderwood about a year ago. This is her fourth round in Alderwood, the first was in 1969. \"They usually let us stay three to five years before they transfer us,\" said Hinojosa. Transfers are based on where the needs are for different skills. She has been to three of the five convents in the United States currently operated by her order. The order, which is focused on education, also has three convents in Peru and 45 in Mexico. Before she was transferred back to Alderwood, she was at a convent in New Jersey, where she taught kindergarten students. Moving back to Alderwood, where the private Catholic school had been closed, Hinojosa said she and the four other nuns at the local convent have been focusing on other aspects of education at the church. \"This is my first year in just pastoral ministry,\" said Hinojosa, who will be celebrating 44 years as a nun in August. She has been teaching CCD religious classes and been speaking to adults and children alike at the church. She said the local nuns participate in the church's food bank, a jail ministry, small church groups and they make visitations to shut-ins. \"We also help with retreats,\" she added. \"It's another ministry,\" she said. \"I had always been in the classroom.\" Out of the classroom for the first time since she became a nun, Hinojosa said she and some of her fellow nuns have found ways to keep in touch with kids. \"When I first learned I wasn't going to be teaching, I thought, man, I'm going to miss those kids, but God provided. He sent me to public school,\" said Hinojosa. Since January she has been an elementary school substitute teacher in the Alderwood School District. Although dressed in \"street clothes,\" she said youngsters from the school recognize her. \"They stop me in the hallway and say, 'you're the CCD lady',\" said Hinojosa. Hinojosa remembers, as a youngster, playing school with neighborhood children in the garage of her family's home. She said the neighborhood children would gather and she would always be the teacher. It was most likely something she and her sisters learned from their mother, who would teach the neighborhood children how to read. \"I love to teach,\" she said. \"I think I was a born teacher.\" The seventh of 16 children, Hinojosa said seven of the nine girls in her family are teachers. At age 17, Hinojosa decided to become a nun. Moving to Mexico, where the order is headquartered, Hinojosa completed religious training before finishing her high school degree through correspondence. She went on to earn her Bachelor's degree in education from Texas A&M. She also holds a Master's degree. During the summer months she takes continuing religious education in Mexico. . Mel Sacher can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or e-mail msacher@hawkpress.com Mel Sacher/Alderwood Daily News Sister Lucia Hinojosa has been a nun for nearly 44 years. A member of a teaching order, Hinojosa said she feels she is a natural teacher. Since the private Catholic school has closed in Alderwood, she has been substituting in the public school district, as well as teaching religious education and supporting various church ministries"}
{"Id":"1101163144541","Title":"Alderwood School Board Briefs","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"7/5/2004","Tag":null,"Content":" Board votes to call for road improvement bids Alderwood School Board members approved a call for bids to make improvements to the district's Washout Road property. The improvements include the installation of a six-foot pipe in the ditch that is located along Washout Road. According to the school district, approximately 1,000 feet of pipe will be needed to cover the ditch. The cost of pipe is estimated at 90 a foot. Board approves six MSDR contracts Members of the Alderwood School Board approved six contracts for the Migrant Student Data and Recruitment (MSDR) office. The contracts are with Denise Reddinger, Ronald D. Vanderholm, Maria Yazmin Gil-Preciado, Maria Alcantar, Heidi Johnson and Candelario Gonzalez. The contracts with each run from May 12 through Aug. 30, except the contract with Gil-Preciado, which runs from June 8 through Aug. 30. The contracts are for reviewing districts and classrooms as assigned by the Office of the Superintendent of Public Instruction (OSPI). Those contracted will attend a special training through OSPI, and will then receive each of the assigned classrooms for approximately 20 minutes per room. The contract states that MSDR will pay each of the consultants 10 per classroom they review with approximately 50 classrooms per week set to be reviewed. SEMY contract approved Alderwood School Board members approved a contract with Peter Weron for the Office of Secondary Education for Migrant Youth (SEMY). The contract is effective May 6 through Aug. 31, and calls for Weron to rewrite tests from the national PASS geometry course to fit the Scantron format. The contract is for 23 per hour, not to exceed 3,200 for writing the course. Board approves contract for personal services Alderwood School Board members approved a contract for personal services with Positive Outlook, an organization out of Outlook. The contract states that Positive Outlook will serve as a liaison between the school district and home school families, ensuring that they have access to certain programs. The contract is for up to 100 hours of service throughout the school year, at a cost of 16 an hour. District to receive equipment from Department of Energy The Alderwood School Board approved an equipment gift agreement with the United States Department of Energy in Richland. According to the agreement the Department of Energy, through an executive order, must give highest preference to elementary and secondary schools when it comes to gifting education-related federal equipment. The equipment the Alderwood School District is set to receive includes 10 Dell computers. Board approves mentor program agreement An agreement approved by the Alderwood School Board will mean the implementation of a mentoring program through the Northwest Community Action Center. The agreement states that the district agrees to work with the Northwest Community Action Center to operate the school-based program. According to the agreement, the district will refer both students and potential mentors to the program, as well as promote the services through various school district communication channels. Board approves agreement with Lourdes Health Network An agreement between Our Lady of Lourdes Hospital in Pasco and the Alderwood School District will help provide education and therapy programs for students in the day treatment program. The agreement, which was approved by the Alderwood School Board, is for 36 an hour per student for each student enrolled in the day treatment program. The services will be offered through Lourdes Counseling Center. District enters into agreement with Yakima schools The Alderwood School Board approved an agreement with the Yakima School District to provide services to the Upper Valley district. The agreement states that the Alderwood School District will provide the services of a certified occupational therapist assistant to the Yakima district at a fee of 150 a day, based on a seven-hour school day. The agreement runs from Aug. 24 to the end of the 2004-05 school year. Board enters into agreement with Mabton district Alderwood School Board members approved an agreement with the Mabton School District to provide services to a severely disabled student. The agreement states that the student will be allowed to take part in the program services offered by the Alderwood School District. The estimated cost of providing services to the student is 11,000, which will be paid by the Mabton School District. Board approves grant writer agreement The Alderwood School Board approved an agreement last week between the local school district, Alderwood Inc., the City of Alderwood, the Port of Alderwood and the Alderwood Community Hospital Association for grant writing services. The 12-month agreement runs from January to December 2004. District enters agreement with Comprehensive Mental Health Alderwood School Board members approved an agreement with Central Washington Comprehensive Mental Health. According to the agreement, it is to establish a \"school-based collaborative behavior disorder counseling service delivery program\" between the two groups. The agreement is effective from September 2004 to June 2005, and calls for the school district to pay the equivalent of 50 percent or 20 hours of a case manager's salary, benefits and overhead not to exceed 22,000 during the agreed term"}
{"Id":"1101163144775","Title":"Untitled","Author":"Bob Story","Time":"7/5/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"7/5?spirit of Alderwood cutline Tim Graff/Alderwood Daily News Alderwood pioneer Ruth Mottley's daughter Ann Whitney (kneeing), was on hand to in unveil a cement paver honoring her mother who was named as a 2004 Spirit of Alderwood award winner during Saturday \"Come Back to the Country\" Fourth of July celebration. Also pictured are (L-R standing) Alderwood City Councilmen George Greenway and Bruce Rick, Alderwood Mayor Rex Luthor, and Councilman Tom Seeger"}
{"Id":"1101163145009","Title":"2004 Spirit of Alderwood awards presented","Author":"Jamie Smart","Time":"7/5/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Among the pomp and circumstance of this past weekend's Fourth of July celebration, four community members were honored for their commitment and contributions to Alderwood. In a ceremony that took place Saturday at the City of Alderwood Centennial Walk, at the corner of Edison and South Fifth Street, awards were presented in the youth and adult categories, as well as for the Living Pioneer and Past Pioneer. The recipient of the 2004 Spirit of Alderwood Youth Award was Danny Mendoza. Mendoza, who will be a senior at Alderwood High School and maintains a 3.5 grade point average, is a long-time member of the Alderwood Skate Park Committee. Mendoza has received a variety of awards in recent years including the 1999 Yakima Youth Commissioner Award for Citizenship, in 2003 he was recognized as one of six outstanding youths in the state, he has been awarded the Prudential Spirit of Community Award, and he has earned the bronze, silver and gold congressional award certificates, as well as the bronze and silver medal congressional awards. \"Danny is also very active in his church,\" said Rex Luthor, Alderwood mayor and emcee of the event. Luthor noted that Mendoza is a member of Young Life, the Order of the Arrow, Boy Scouts and is a member of Scout Venture Crew #632. He is also active in high school drama club, debate team and LINK crew. The 2004 Spirit of Alderwood Adult Award was presented to former Alderwood City Manager Dave Fonfara. \"This individual definitely deserves the 2004 Spirit of Alderwood award for serving Alderwood for over 18 years,\" Luthor said. He said Fonfara moved to Alderwood in the early 1980s, becoming the community's first parks and recreation director. After serving in that capacity for a couple of years, Luthor said Fonfara moved to California, but was soon back in Alderwood serving as the community economic development director. \"What a parks and recreation person knew about economic development was debatable, however, Dave soon showed that he was multi-talented and became a great economic development director for our community,\" Luthor said. It wasn't until 2000 that Fonfara became Alderwood city manager, a position he held until early 2004. Luthor noted that as city manager, he helped complete some of the projects he had started as the economic development director, including Centennial Square, the bronze program and the pathway park. Being honored with the 2004 Spirit of Alderwood Living Pioneer Award was John Saras. Saras, who was born in Shoshone, Idaho and graduated from Utah State, taught two years in Shoshone before coming to Alderwood in the fall of 1952. Once in Alderwood, Saras spent two years teaching at Wendell Phillips School before moving to Alderwood's Kamiakin Junior High School. Luthor said Saras taught at the junior high school until the mid-1980s, when he moved to Alderwood High School, where he taught for two years before retiring. Saras is deeply involved in the community of Alderwood, having served as senior warden of the Episcopal church for many years, is a past-president and current vice president of the Alderwood Library Board and is the president of the Alderwood Museum and Historical Society. Luthor noted that Saras also spends time driving the elderly to doctors appointments in Yakima and the Tri-Cities and has volunteered to mentor students at the high school. The final award was presented to the late Ruth Ferrell Mottley. Mottley, who was raised on land her father and grandfather homesteaded southwest of Alderwood, received the 2004 Spirit of Alderwood Past Pioneer Award. Luthor noted that Mottley is remembered as a loving and devote wife and mother, as a community activist and as a futurist who carried a positive vision of the people and character of the community in which she lived. Luthor said Mottley, the daughter of Ren Ferrell and Adelia Switzler Ferrell, started school at the Riverside School, progressed to the Wendell Phillips School and then to Alderwood schools. She went to college at Whitman and the University of Washington, where she earned her teaching degree. Mottley was the first woman to be elected to the Alderwood School Board, served on the Board for Yakima Valley Community College, was a lifetime member of the Alderwood Pioneer Association, Chapter L of the P.E.O. and the Holy Trinity Episcopal Church. Luthor added that Mottley was dedicated to the establishment of the Alderwood museum and was instrumental in converting the former Ball's Funeral Home building into a permanent facility for the museum. He said Mottley also gave an original line cabin used by Ben Snipes' cowboys to the City of Alderwood for Snipes Park and also instigated the refurbishment of the park by initiating a bronze statue of her father. Recipients of the 2004 Spirit of Alderwood awards received a certificate, a medallion and will be listed along the City of Alderwood Centennial Walk. Saturday afternoon, last year's Spirit of Alderwood award winners also received an honor. The plagues featuring their names were unveiled along the Centennial Walk. Last year's winners were Rebecca Slotemaker, who received the Youth Award; Dr. Randy Schuler, who received the Adult Award; John McMinimee, who received the Living Pioneer Award; and Mayor Jerry Taylor, who was honored as the Past Pioneer. Danny Mendoza, 2004 Spirit of Alderwood Youth Award Dave Fonfara, 2004 Spirit of Alderwood Adult Award John Saras, 2004 Spirit of Alderwood Living Pioneer Award Ruth Ferrell Mottley, 2004 Spirit of Alderwood Past Pioneer Award 2 - Ellie Olmsen ? July 5, 2004 ? 5:31 PM Proofed_________ ? Corrected & Placed in Folder_____________"}
{"Id":"1101163145259","Title":"Entertainment Briefs","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"7/2/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"1-Column Prosser parkwill explodewith activitiesthis 4th of July PROSSER - Prosser city park will be full of activities for the entire family Sunday, July 4. Headlining the 4th of July activities is a day-long car show and shine. Also, numerous service organizations will have booths set up and will be prepared to tempt the tastebuds of those in attendance with specialty foods. The day's activities will begin at 9 a.m. with a kiddie parade through the downtown streets of Prosser. The fun then shifts to the city park. Besides the car show and shine and the many food booths, there will be bingo games offered by the Knights of Columbus from 11 a.m. to 3 p.m. Numerous game and activity booths will be operating during the same time period. From 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. the city park stage will be the site where several entertainers will perform. The Dirty River Blues Band is set to perform from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m., Tara & Trina from 1:15 to 2:30 p.m. and The Shades from 3 to 6 p.m. Following the fun in the park event, a fireworks display is scheduled at Art Fiker Stadium, at approximately 10 p.m. Senior actorsto present Mame in October, 2004 Over The Hill Theatricals has announced it will present the timeless musical, \"Mame,\" as its fall production. The over age 45 amateur acting group will present the play in mid-October at the Alderwood High School auditorium. Tryouts will be held Aug. 2 and 3, from 7 to 10 p.m. at Alderwood United Methodist Church, according to Sheila Hazzard, who will direct the popular play \"We encourage men and women, ages 45 and older, to join us in presenting this entertaining play about a bigger than life woman and her adventures,\" said Hazzard. The play will be produced by Donna Sartin. For more information about the tryouts or Over the Hill membership, call 837-3157, 882-2919 or 786-3990. Yakima Folklife Festival bigger, better than ever YAKIMA - More than 100 music and dance performances at 13 venues highlights this year's Yakima Folklife Festival. The three-day extravaganza is set for Friday, Saturday and Sunday July 9-11. The main thrust of activities will once again take place at Yakima Valley Museum and Franklin Park. Besides dance and music, there will be plenty of kids activities, a medieval faire, crafts and food booths. The Saturday, July 10, park entertainment kicks off at 11:30 a.m. Between the nearby museum and the park, six stages will be set up, all featuring folklife musicians. Non-stop entertainment will be presented until about 8 p.m. that evening. For those who want to continue the fun, a contradance will be held at the Broadway Grange Hall (Washington and 11th avenues) Saturday night, from 7 to 10 p.m. Organizers say there will be line and square dancing to a live string band, and instruction will be provided for beginners. The fun starts all over again Sunday, July 11, at Franklin Park, with more musical groups performing from 11 a.m. until 8 p.m. For those who want to get an early start at this year's festival, six Yakima eateries and pubs will host live music Friday evening, July 9. The sites include Grant's Brewpub, The Depot, Bob's Keg & Cork, Barrel House, Greystone and Essencia Bakery. Gourmet BBQ Extravaganza set for Friday, July 9 YAKIMA - Like barbecue? Then plan on camping out all day under the flag pole at the Yakima County Courthouse on Friday, July 9. The Yakima County Sheriff's Department will host its eighth annual Gourmet BBQ Extravaganza that day. Breakfast will be served from 6:30 to 10 a.m., and lunch and dinner from 11 to 6:30 p.m. Last year, the Sheriff's agency raised more than 36,000 for Special Olympics. Some of that money came from last year's barbecue fund-raiser. The proceeds from this year's event will also benefit Special Olympics. \"Our agency led all other law enforcement agencies in the state, earning us the number one position in the Circle of Honor for the fifth year in a row,\" said Sheriff's Office spokesman Stacee Brooks. The Friday, July 9, breakfast menu includes eggs, ham, sausage, pancakes, juice, coffee and hot chocolate. The lunch and dinner menu offers gourmet burgers, foot-long dogs, chips, fruit and drinks. Moses Lake offers free concert series MOSES LAKE - Centennial Theatre, located on the lakefront in downtown Moses Lake, will again be home to that city's free summer concert series. Organizers say they have booked another exceptional season with a variety of talent and genres. This year's line-up includes the Christopher Moyer Orchestra with guest vocalist Elisha Mitchell on Sunday, July 4; The Mills Brothers on Saturday, July 17; The Rangers on Saturday, July 24; Cornell Gunter's Coasters on Saturday, July 31; Misty River on Saturday, Aug. 7; Lavay Wells & Her Red Hot Skillet Lickers on Saturday, Aug. 14; Al Stewart on Saturday, Aug. 28; and BeatleMania Live on Saturday, Sept. 4. Admission to all the concerts is free. The venue features casual grass bowl seating at an award winning amphitheater. Entrance to the theater will be on a first-come, first-serve basis. The kick-off event this coming Sunday, July 4, features Christopher Moyer, a dedicated woodwind instrumentalist, vocalist and arranger. His orchestra is a collection of some of the finest musicians in the Inland Northwest. Accompanying the musical group to Moses Lake will be Gospel recording vocalist Elisha Mitchell. The Pacific Northwest native is described as having a heavenly voice and a name to match, as her name in Hebrew means \"God of salvation.\" Phoenix Festival returns this year TROUT LAKE - After a one-year hiatus, the Phoenix Festival returns to Trout Lake, better than ever. Following in the revolutionary spirit of festivals such as Burning Man, Tribal Gathering and Earthdance, Phoenix Festival is an autonomous music and arts festival happening Independence Day weekend, July 1-5. The 2004 festival will feature performances on multiple stages by globally renowned musicians, actors, lyricists and visual artists. This year's entertainers will include Blackalicious, The Coup, Saul Williams, Jello Biafra, Tipper, Dara, Hive, Shakta, Jay Tripwire, Lusine, Mr. Projectile, Consolidated & the Free Music Society Orchestra, Supersoul & The Grand Inquisitor, and DJ Realm. Trout Lake organizers are adding a new dynamic this year at the Phoenix Festival, with a first ever live thematic performance stage, formally named Culture Jam. The stage will showcase regionally, nationally and internationally recognized musical artists specializing in electronic, intelligent dance music, dub, hip-hop and culturally eclectic sounds. The four other stages will focus on an eclectic mix of electronic music genres, workshops and visual art. Additionally, there will be several interactive theme camps and art projects that will provide a snapshot of the festival's cultural community. Chris West, who is helping to promote the July 1-5 event, said Phoenix Festival is a fun environment for thousands of participants to freely express themselves. He said it is the largest outdoor, non-commercial and community-based underground music and arts festival in the Pacific Northwest. Tickets range in price from 35 to 65, and are available on the internet at the website: www.brownpaperticket.com. For more information about Phoenix Festival, go to the site: www.phoenixfest.com"}
{"Id":"1101163146322","Title":"Teen sting","Author":"Mel Sacher","Time":"7/2/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"17-year-old \"Sue\" (her name has been changed) wants to make a difference in the lives of teens. It's not because of the statistics that say the leading cause of death for those between 15 and 20 is traffic crashes. Or because, according to a survey by Mothers Against Drunk Driving, that says that more than 2.5 million teens don't know they could die from alcohol poisoning. She knows how alcohol can affect teens and carry through their lives. Her real dad is an alcoholic, who started drinking at age 13. \"Because of that I can't see him any more,\" said Sue. According to Mabton Police Chief Raul Almeida, an estimated 6.9 million American juniors and seniors in high school can walk into a store and buy their own alcohol. He added that 12 percent of teens are believed to be provided alcohol by their parents. Sue, a police volunteer, knows of drinking parties kids she attends high school with attend and she has friends and classmates who drink, but she is working to curb the source of alcohol to teens. A regular high school student, Sue likes hanging out with friends and talking, but she foresees having a career as a sheriff's deputy and working undercover gives her some of the experience of police work while fighting underage drinking. \"I'm tired of under-aged drinking,\" said Sue, who looks as if she's 15. \"I always hear about parties and it gets old.\" The Yakima area high school student is one of several teens volunteering with the Yakima County Traffic Safety task force to conduct compliance checks of local merchants selling alcohol. She's also with the group FAME, (Furnishing Alcohol to Minors Enforcement), also known as \"shoulder taps.\" According to Almeida, with compliance checks, Sue and other teens like her will enter a market or bar and attempt to purchase alcohol from the establishment. \"What we're looking for when we send a young person into the store is, we're asking the merchant to comply with what they're supposed to do, which is check the identification of a person,\" said Almeida. \"It's an easy test. When these kids go in a store it should be a no brainer for the merchant, but unfortunately, that doesn't happen.\" Almeida said that according to the Office of Juvenile Justice Delinquency Prevention, compliance checks are the number one way law enforcement can use to deter alcohol purchases made by youths. In a year every business from Yakima to Prosser that sells alcohol will be tested with compliancy checks. \"We want to make sure what we do is fair,\" said Almeida. He said that photos of the teens are \"age tested\" to make sure a general consensus of the public believes they are well under the legal drinking age of 21. Any that could pass for being adults are automatically eliminated from the program. Youth police volunteers working in different communities around the Lower Valley typically will enter stores and attempt to purchase beer. If the clerk checks their identification, then everything is fine and the youths move onto the next business. In the other scenario, youths will stand outside a business and attempt to get customers to purchase alcohol for them, which is the kind of enforcement Sue prefers. It's mostly men who agree to purchase alcohol for her. \"Sometimes they're just going in to buy simple things like a newspaper,\" said Sue. Almeida said that they weed out \"good Samaritan\" buyers who may believe the youths are actually 21, but lost their license and buy them alcohol. He added that they also weed out those who need money by taking a small amount of cash from the teens to make the transaction. Almeida explained that often people will buy alcohol for teens if they think they will be making a few dollars in the process. \"They will actually have to kick in some money to buy the beer,\" Almeida explained in which adults are targeted to be cited. The program has been successful in catching those purchasing beer for teens, 90 percent of which have been men, he said. A couple of weeks ago when Sue was working in Alderwood she was able to talk a market patron into buying alcohol for her. He then tried to sell her drugs and convince her to go to a party with him. When police arrested the man he was found to be a registered sex offender, said Almeida. \"That's the kind of people who are buying alcohol for kids,\" he added. Concerned with the safety of volunteers, none of the teens work businesses in their home town. They are also paired up and each teen has an undercover officer looking out for them. The teens are wired and both video and audio taped, said Almeida. They also learn a series of hand signals so they can communicate with officers in case of emergency. The teens and participants in the Yakima County Traffic Safety task force are involved in training teen volunteers across the state. Sue is an adjunct instructor for the program. She has traveled to Snohomish to give classes to teens on how to approach possible buyers. In Yakima County, since the start of the compliance and FAME enforcements, there has been a drop in the number of sales to teens. Almeida said when the program started there would be three or four people cited per night, now the number has dropped to the occasional buy. \"I don't really get anybody any more,\" said Sue. \"When I first started there were lots. It's definitely making it more difficult for teens to buy alcohol"}
{"Id":"1101163146588","Title":"Grandview looks for ways to spruce up downtown image","Author":"John Panni","Time":"7/2/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"GRANDVIEW - Some downtown areas across the country are struggling for an identity, but the message brought before a sparse crowd last night was the downtown area of Grandview isn't all that bad off as some might think. A meeting was held last night at the Grandview senior center to discuss ways to improve and build upon the downtown area. Gregg Dohrn, a planner with Wells & Stokes of Bellevue, presented some of the information he gathered earlier this week about downtown Grandview. \"We spent some time literally walking up and down the streets,\" said Dohrn. \"We had the opportunity to listen and learn a lot.\" Dohrn said the one thing he learned from talking with residents and business owners is there are no shortage of ideas about how to improve the area. \"There are some things that distinguish Grandview from other communities,\" said Dohrn. In talking with people, Dohrn said a common theme heard was Grandview needs to establish its own identity, separate from other communities in the Valley. Dohrn said one of the most valuable assets the community has is the Yakima Valley Community College campus. Dohrn especially liked an idea he heard of putting the city and college library services together as one. The downtown area in Grandview also has many wonderful buildings the community can use to its advantage, said Dohrn. Another plus is that Grandview has a distinctive, well-defined downtown area, said Dohrn. Dohrn also touched on some of the challenges facing Grandview. \"The appearance of downtown Grandview is not bad, but does it have the appearance you want?\" he asked of those in attendance. Dohrn said there are a number of older buildings in downtown Grandview that need to be better maintained. Dohrn heard from quite a few people about the challenges in establishing a business in the downtown area. Dohrn also reminded the audience while it is important to bring new business into the downtown area, it is equally as important to assist the existing businesses, which are already supporting the community. Dohrn said to help improve the downtown area in Grandview the community needs to pay attention to the small items that often get overlooked. One of the cases Dohrn pointed out was that it is very easy to drive past downtown Grandview. He suggested the community look at ways to improve signage that would let people know about and where the downtown area is in Grandview. Dohrn touched on four areas that are important to the revitalization of the downtown area. The first of which is activities. Dohrn said more activities need to take place in the downtown area to attract people to what is being offered. Dohrn suggested bringing some of the existing events in the community to the downtown area, such as the annual 3-on-3 basketball tournament. He also suggested having a car show or some sort of community concert at Stokely Square. There was also talk of having a night set aside where the community can turn out to see a movie. \"Think about your audience,\" said Dohrn. Another important area to address is the appearance of the downtown. \"Think about things that make it a more attractive place,\" said Dohrn. Some of the suggestions tossed around included improving the appearance of downtown Grandview by placing benches where people can sit, widening sidewalks and planting trees. One area Dohrn suggested the community doesn't spend that much time dwelling on is the issue of the color of buildings in downtown. He said the community shouldn't spend their time arguing about the color of a building when there are more pressing issues to address. As far as supporting the development and growth of businesses, Dohrn suggested having the more experienced business owners in the community work with new business owners. Dohrn said some of the most successful companies in the state are in Grandview and the community should be taking advantage of the owners' knowledge. The community has already made great strides in working to connect its downtown to people traveling along Interstate 82. Dohrn said one of the more crucial improvements Grandview has made was getting rid of the bridge that used to hang above Wine Country Road. Dohrn said that has greatly improved the aesthetics of the area. Dohrn said Grandview has also down a nice job of improving its entrances into Grandview. Dohrn said Grandview should find a way to build on the prominent wine tourism industry. He said Grandview should take advantage of being the site of the first winery Chateau Ste. Michelle established. He also said the new YVCC expansion into the former Safeway building in downtown Grandview will be a welcomed addition. He felt the city should find a way to build upon the viticulture classes that will be taught at the college. \"That is going to put you on the wine map,\" said Dohrn. Dohrn also suggested taking advantage of the rich agricultural history in the area, tossing around the idea of a farmer's market. Grandview Chamber of Commerce President Jim Herriman said he wanted the community to be known as the friendliest in the Valley. He felt that is something that could make everyone proud. He also wanted to encourage everyone to shop in downtown Grandview because it will benefit the community even more. Herriman encouraged more people in the community to turn out and volunteer. \"If we want to see these things happen, we ourselves need to get involved,\" said Herriman. A number of different suggestions were thrown around by audience members, including encouraging RV owners to utilize the fairgrounds. Another suggestion was that the library and the parks and recreation department stop increasing rates for out-of-town residents, to attract more people to the community. \"There are no simple solutions or simple answers,\" said Dohrn. \"It is going to take the (idea) that a few small things can add up. \"One of the things Grandview has going for it is when you put your mind to (do something), it gets done"}
{"Id":"1101163146822","Title":"Smart Beat","Author":"Jamie Smart","Time":"7/2/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"If I were able to bestow sainthood onto people who go above and beyond the call of duty I'd save the biggest crowns for Carol Stone and Greg Schlieve of Alderwood. Oh yes, and for Kathy Corliss, my fellow Alderwood Lions Club members and my co-workers at the Alderwood Daily News. Why? Because without their encouragement and support, this year's \"Back to the Country\" Fourth of July fireworks display, set for Sunday night at the Alderwood High School Clem Senn football field, might not be happening. I'd also save stars in heaven for those people who demonstrated their support by generously dropping their spare change in the numerous \"Alderwood Community Fireworks Display\" donation glass jars which have been located on Alderwood business counters during the past two months. From the more than 24 jars sitting on counters at restaurants, city hall, banks, local taverns and even at the local schools, more than 700 was collected to be used toward providing the community with an awesome fireworks display. In addition to those funds, this year's fireworks fund received a major contribution of 2,000 from the Alderwood Chamber of Commerce to jump start the fund-raising campaign. But I believe it was through the weekly visits from Stone that the money in the jars continued to increase and for that I thank her so much. I know we wouldn't have even come close to collecting the that much money without her timely and gentle nudges. In addition, Schlieve and I and my fellow Lions Club members encouraged the Alderwood VFW, AmVets and their respective auxiliaries to join forces to host a seafood dinner which netted another 613 for the fund. Schlieve, who has become something of an expert at writing convincing letters for fund-raisers, encouraged Alderwood volunteer firemen, Alderwood pioneers, Alderwood American Legion, Kiwanis and Soroptimists groups to donate an additional 1,320 to the patriotic cause. By mid-June we realized we were going to raise more than the extra 2,000 we needed to put on the 4,000 community Fourth of July pyrotechnic display. What I didn't expect was the wholehearted support my co-workers brought to the fund-raising effort. Led by the newspaper's production manager, Kim Taylor Morris, and reporter Ellie Olmsen, our DSN crew pooled their talents to bake, sew, paint and cook items for two very successful \"Red White and Blue\" crafts and bake sales. That effort alone, with an extra donation by Alderwood Daily News Publisher Tim Graff, added more than 270 to the cause. Then came the last minute, but equally appreciated donation to the community fireworks fund by Alderwood's two Red Hat Society chapters, bringing the total fireworks campaign to well over 5,000. I can't begin to explain how excited I am to be able to tell Alderwood Daily News readers that we now have a nice little nest egg to begin next year's fireworks campaign. Thank you, one and all for all of your support and to my committee for its encouragement and support. I encourage each of you to enjoy all of this weekend's Fourth of July activities, from the Come Back to the Country Soapbox Derby races and family fun scheduled in Alderwood's Central Park on Saturday, scheduled from noon to 5 p.m., to Sunday evening's pyrotechnic display. Come inside the football field for the best seats at the Alderwood VFW and Lions Club-hosted patriotic program, beginning at 7 p.m. Take time to enjoy pre-show music and ice cream at a Fourth of July social being hosted across the street at the Christian Reformed Church, which will be followed by fireworks at dusk. Have a great Fourth of July - I certainly plan to, thanks to all of you. . Jamie Smart can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or you can e-mail her at jSmart@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101163161228","Title":"Alderwood School Board Briefs","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"7/1/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"1-Column School board discusses possible retreat dates Last week, Alderwood School Board members discussed dates for their upcoming retreat. The board discussed two possible dates, with the final date for the retreat yet to be set. The possible dates include July 23 and 24, and July 30 and 31. Board approves new parent partnership program The Alderwood School Board has decided to take a more direct approach when it comes to working to increase parent involvement through the district. Last week, the board voted to adopt a new Parent Partnership Plan, which includes the establishment of a district task force, as well as the hiring of a parent coordinator that will work to increase parent involvement, as well as work with schools and programs to ensure that parents are satisfied with both. Ruben Carrera, executive director of school and community resources, told board members that the parent partnership program will work in cooperation with the different programs the district already has in place, including Gear Up, Readiness to Learn, home liaisons, the parent information resource center, 21st Century Learning Centers, the Outlook Booster Club and the Alderwood Athletic Club. The new program will also work to ensure that parents feel welcome when they walk into the different schools, have access to information about parent involvement activities and have a good understanding of what is expected of students at each grade level. The parent partnership program also includes a component that will give parents more direct access to administrators. Information from Carrera notes that the program will promote informal meetings between parents and administrators to help ensure open lines of communication. The parent partnership plan is set to be implemented this coming school year"}
{"Id":"1101163161541","Title":"Forum","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"6/30/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"1-Column Community center under-utilized Monday, June 28, the temperature hovered around 80 degrees. The parking lot at South Hill Park was full. Budding baseball players were abundant on the park's ball fields. The community center? It stood locked and empty. Only a lone janitor partook of the emptiness. Doors locked, lights off? On a warm summer evening and kids on summer break? What is the purpose of a community center but to offer a cool place to play and socialize? Not true of Alderwood's new \"state of the art\" community center. It sits empty (not only Monday but several, if not most, nights I have driven by). I am dismayed at the perceived under-utilization of this new facility. I've read and heard of a very small number of programs being offered at the center. But what exactly are the offerings for the youth and others of the community during the dog days of summer, beyond a very important meal program? Why does the splash pad lay dry? Where are the vast programs, equipment, staff and more that the Washington State Migrant Council (with a multi-million dollar budget) promised in its proposal to manage the community center? Where is the landscaping that was to be completed by the managing agency? Why are there multiple brown spots in newly laid lawn? Why is one revenue source, concessions, ignored during the summer ball season at South Hill Park? So many more questions to ask. Why is the Alderwood Community Center not a more inviting place to those utilizing South Hill Park on warm summer evenings and to the community in general? I know for a fact that this not the vision that the Community Center Planning Committee had for such a facility. Is political meddling going to come back and bite someone in the proverbial \"rear end?\" /s/ Greg Uberuaga, Alderwood Abortion Let us take a moment to reflect about the millions of babies whose lives are being violently ended while still in the womb; babies whose futures should have been left in the hands of their Heavenly Father. Surely He gathers them to Himself, weeping as He comforts them. He points to that little boy and says, \"He was to be a scientist, and perhaps I would have given him the key to unlock the cure for cancer. And the little girl over there might have been the doctor who eradicated AIDS.\" He picks up a tiny hand and strokes the fingers and says, \"These tiny fingers would have played music that would have thrilled the souls of thousands.\" He kisses a little cheek and whispers, \"This mouth would have spoken words about me to a world that is dying in sin.\" He caresses tiny toes and speaks of feet that would have carried words of peace to world governments. \"This little soul,\" He says, \"Would have taught your grandchildren, loving and caring for them along the way. And that one over there would have stood by you in line at the grocery store, turning to smile and brighten your day.\" As He looks across the vast ocean of tiny beings whose futures He knows would have touched our lives, He grieves for them and wonders why we aren't grieving, too. His beautiful face looks at us and He extends His arms with nail-scarred hands, and through His tears He says to you and I, \"In as much as you have done it unto the least of these my brethren, you have done unto me.\" The preceding appeared in our church bulletin and I thought it was worth sharing with your readers. /s/ Bob Story Sr., Alderwood Fireworks display People of Alderwood heard of the need for donations to pay for the fireworks on July 4th and really stepped forward! I want to thank all the business owners who accepted donation jars and cans for their help in the effort to collect donations, but especially those people who donated. Through your efforts, we were able to collect more than 700. I am also very pleased with the firemen's donation of 500, the Pioneer Picnic Association's 160 and Elmer Schilperoort's donation of 160. It just shows that the people of Alderwood are capable of great things and can be very proud of themselves this 4th of July. So enjoy the display because we all made it happen. /s/ Carol Stone, Alderwood Pugs found Last Thursday night at 7 p.m., we received a phone call that our two pugs had been found in Grandview. We would like to express our deep thanks to the family who found them and called us to return them home. Honesty is hard to come by these days. Thank you for putting our family back together. We would also like to thank the Alderwood police officers, dispatchers, the Humane Society and animal control officer who worked so diligently for their return. Special thanks to friends and acquaintances who looked everywhere they went for the dogs, and to those who called in sightings. Also, thanks to the business owners who displayed our posters. /s/ Tommy Sacher, Alderwood"}
{"Id":"1101163161775","Title":"Support sought for highway name change","Author":"Jamie Smart","Time":"6/30/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"After more than 20 years of having a twin identity, old State Highway 12 may yet again be renamed - at least on the Alderwood area stretch of road now known as Yakima Valley Highway. The Alderwood Inc. Economic Development Board of Directors recently discussed the possibility of renaming Yakima Valley Highway as Wine Country Road, as it is known throughout the rest of the Yakima Valley. The board is now in the process of seeing what level of support there may be in the community for the name change proposal, said Marshall Doak, Alderwood Inc. executive director. The Alderwood Port District commissioners recently heard a report about the economic development board's discussion regarding the name change, but has chosen to take a \"wait and see\" stance until more public input on the name change is gathered, said Amber Hansen, Port manager. The old State Highway 12, which was once the primary highway, which lies to the north of the Yakima River, was renamed in the late 1980s, upon the completion of Interstate 82. The public opinion at the time was equally divided as to whether or not to call the highway \"Wine Country Road\" in recognition of the area's rapidly growing wine industry, or to name the highway \"Yakima Valley Highway,\" with the result being the double moniker. Alderwood Inc. representatives will be discussing the possible name change with various groups in coming weeks, said Doak. . Jamie Smart can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or you can e-mail her at jSmart@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101163162010","Title":"Seahawks holding football camp in Pasco, Prosser","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"6/30/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"Seattle Seahawks kicker Josh Brown will be overseeing two four-hour clinics being sponsored by the NFL franchise, in Pasco and Prosser. Brown will be joined by several local coaches for the clinic. The first of the clinics will be held Thursday, July 8, at Pasco High School from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. The following day, Friday, the Seahawks' camp will be held at Prosser High School from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. The camps are open to children ages 8 to 15. For more information on the camp call Garrett Thiemens at (206) 381-7902 or visit seahawks.com"}
{"Id":"1101163162244","Title":"Grid Kid sign-ups Wednesday","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"6/29/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"The tenth year of Alderwood Grid Kid football is about to get underway. Team sign-ups will be held on Wednesday, June 30, from 6 to 7 p.m. near the Alderwood High School football field. To be eligible players must be between 9 and 12 years old, have a copy of their birth certificate and pay a 60 registration fee. There will be a football camp in July that will stress fundamentals and teamwork. The exact days of the camp have not been set yet. Questions can be addressed to Max Saldana at 839-2968"}
{"Id":"1101163162478","Title":"Gubernatorial candidate stops off in Alderwood","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"6/28/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"Working as a member of the private sector, gubernatorial candidate Dino Rossi feels he has a different perspective to bring to the office. Rossi, who is a commercial real estate investment banker and has served in the Washington state senate, is the leading Republican candidate for Washington state governor. Rossi said he feels one of his top priorities, if elected, will include looking at ways to improve the state's economy and job market. \"People are broke and out of work,\" Rossi said, noting that it is clear that the situation is not getting any better. Rossi said he feels one key to helping solve this issue lies in helping small businesses in the state grow and prosper. Rossi said one of his goals, if elected, is to show people that it is possible to be both fiscally conservative and civically responsible. Rossi said he is also concerned about the state of the region's health care situation. He noted that malpractice insurance is out of control and is driving highly qualified physicians out of the state. \"We have to keep our doctors here,\" Rossi said. He added that it's nice to have health insurance, but it's not much value if there are no doctors to go to. \"It's an issue, especially in rural areas,\" Rossi said. Rossi, who was chairman of the budget writing Ways and Means Committee, said he was proud of his work this last year, which included balancing the budget without implementing new taxes. Working with the Ways and Means Committee, Rossi also had a chance to include funds in the budget for certain projects, including the Black Rock Reservoir project. Rossi said he feels water storage is an important issue on this side of the state, noting that money was set aside in the budget to support the storage project. \"No matter what happens, we need more storage in this basin,\" Rossi said. \"Water is going to be key.\" When it comes to the Washington Assessment of Student Learning tests that are on their way to becoming a graduation requirement for students throughout the state, Rossi said he feels it's important to keep standards high throughout the school system. However, he added that it is something that needs to continually be re-examined. \"We need to look at if we're measuring, what we want to be measuring,\" Rossi said in regards to the WASL. Rossi, who is the youngest of nine children and was raised on a school teacher's salary, said he worked hard to get pay raises for first through seventh year teachers during the budget session. \"The lowest 32 percent of teachers get a raise because of me,\" Rossi said. He noted that first through seventh year teachers should now make no less that 30,000 a year. He said he also managed to include a 100 increase in per student spending for schools in Washington. Rossi also noted that if elected he plans to be \"governor of the whole state.\" He added that last Friday afternoon marked his 13th visit to the Yakima Valley"}
{"Id":"1101163162713","Title":"Changes in district athletic code outlined","Author":"John Panni","Time":"6/28/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"Bill Daley, Alderwood High School athletic director, presented some of the changes in the activities club code that were made earlier this year, to the local school board recently. The changes in the code came after a series of public meetings the high school athletic/activities advisory council held. Daley told the school board he is excited about some of the changes in the policy. \"It is more in line with our philosophy,\" said Daley. Daley pointed out the high school's athletic/activities advisory council has been reorganized. The council will consist of 14 members, made up of six community members, three school administrators, three coaches and two students. Daley will oversee the committee in the role of chairman. Prior to the change, it wasn't clear who the sitting members of the council would be. The group is scheduled to meet three times a year to discuss policies. Other policy changes also outline who will serve on the five-member activities review board, which serves as the disciplinary panel for students accused of violating the code. The panel will consist of an administrator, two members of the faculty who are not coaches or advisors, the advisor of the activity from which the student has committed the violation and one other advisor. The student going before the panel also has the right to choose a faculty representative to serve on the board. Under the policy, the athletic director will select the faculty members to serve on the panel for each individual situation. The policy is also stricter on defining alcohol violations. Consumption or possession of alcohol beverages is strictly not allowed and is punishable by a level one penalty, which requires the student to undergo alcohol intervention counseling. The new policy is geared more towards intervention counseling than assessment. \"Really, what we are after is intervention,\" said Daley. Intervention includes students receiving education, assessment and/or treatment from an independent state-approved treatment center. The intervention must be completed within 30 days of the violation. The rest of the athletic code stayed intact. \"We have done a much better job of creating an athletic code that will easily be read,\" said Daley. . John Panni can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or email him at mPanni@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101163162978","Title":"Obituaries","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"6/28/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"JOHN E JOHN E. RAYBURN John E. Rayburn, 81, of Grandview died Thursday, June 24, 2004. He was born in Deepwater, Mo. to Charles and Nellie Mae Rayburn. He graduated from Deepwater High School. After graduation he went into the Coast Guard and served on the USCG Cutter Mojave. In 1946 he came to the Yakima Valley, where he met and married his wife, Geraldine Palmer, on May 12, 1950 in Yakima. They made their home in Wapato for 17 years. He worked for May Nursery as a foreman until 1957. He began his law enforcement career in 1957, working at the Wapato Police Station for eight years. He also worked as a sheriff deputy recruit for one year. In 1961 he began working for the Yakima Sheriff s Department, becoming a sergeant of the Lower Valley Alderwood department. He worked there for 22 years. In 1963 he moved with his family to Grandview, where they have made their home. After retiring from his law enforcement career, he became a salesman for Fergies and Anderson Motors in Grandview. He is survived by his wife of 54 years, Geraldine Rayburn of Grandview; two daughters, Kathy Schab and husband, John, of Prosser and Christine Seyler and husband, Scott, of Montana; one son, Clay Rayburn of Prosser; five grandsons; 13 great-grandchildren; one great-great-grandson; one sister, Leona Delozier Yakima; one brother-in-law; and numerous nieces and nephews. He was preceded in death by his parents; five sisters; and one brother. Viewing will be held Monday, June 28, 2004, from 1 to 8 p.m. at Wells Funeral Home, Alderwood. Funeral services will be held Tuesday, June 29, 2004, at 10 a.m. at Wells Funeral Home, Alderwood. Interment will follow at West Hills Memorial Park in Yakima. Wells Funeral Home is in charge of arrangements. In lieu of flowers, donations may be made in Mr. Rayburn s name to the Yakima County Sheriff s Department, Search and Rescue, P.O. Box 1388, Yakima, WA 98907. AROLDO TREVINO Aroldo Trevino, 53, of Grandview died Thursday, June 24, 2004, at Yakima Regional Hospital. He was born June 21, 1951 in Mission, Texas to Ildefonso Trevino and Consuelo Falcon. At the age of two, he and his family moved to Grandview. He received his education in Grandview, graduating with the class of 1968. He attended the University of Washington for two years. On Feb. 14, 1978 he married Elizabeth Perez in Yakima. They together have made their home in Grandview. He worked as a car salesman in the Valley for a number of years. He is survived by his wife, Elizabeth Trevino of Grandview; one daughter, Anna Erica Trevino of Grandview; one son, Ildefonso Trevino of Washington State; two grandchildren; his mother, Consuelo Trevino of Grandview; one sister, Estella Trevino of Washington State; one brother, Arnold Trevino of Texas; and numerous nieces and nephews. He was preceded in death by his father; and one brother, Arnaldo. Viewing and visitation will be held Monday, June 28, 2004, from 5 to 8 p.m. with a Rosary to be recited at 6 p.m. at Wells Funeral Home, Grandview. Mass of Christian Burial will be held Tuesday, June 29, 2004, at 3 p.m. at Blessed Sacrament Catholic Church, Grandview. Wells Funeral Home, Grandview, is in charge of arrangements. JOHN R. ASHER John R. Asher, 70, of Granger passed away Sunday, June 27, 2004, at Toppenish Community Hospital. He was born Oct. 14, 1933 in Outlook to Robert A. and Myrtle (Ford) Asher. John received his education in Alderwood, graduating with the Alderwood High School class of 1952. Following his high school education, John enlisted in the U.S. Army. Following his military service he returned to Outlook to farm with his father. On Feb. 8, 1957 he married Betty Fox in Alderwood. They made their home and farmed in Outlook, until moving to Granger in 1964. John later began working as a United States postal clerk for the Granger Post Office, then transferred to the Yakima Post Office until retiring after 37 years in January of 2004. He enjoyed watching sports, especially watching his children and grandchildren participate. John was also a very loyal Seahawk and Mariners fan. He is survived by his wife of 47 years, Betty Asher of Granger; five children, Ronald Asher and wife, Sherry, of Bakersfield, Calif., Rick Asher and wife, Minerva, of Grandview, Roberta Mirelez and husband, Ray, of Alderwood, Kenneth Asher and wife, Yolanda, of Prosser and Raymond Asher and wife, Blanca, of Granger; 19 grandchildren; five great-grandchildren; and one sister, Mary Gentry and husband, George, of Katy, Texas. He was preceded in death by his parents. Viewing and visitation will be held Wednesday, June 30, 2004, from 1 to 8 p.m. at Wells Funeral Home, Alderwood. Graveside services will be held Thursday, July 1, 2004, at 10 a.m. at the Lower Valley Memorial Gardens, Alderwood, under the direction of the Wells Funeral Home, Alderwood. HANS THEODORE KOENEN Hans Theodore Koenen, 94, passed away Friday, June 25, 2004, at Hillcrest Manor in Alderwood. He was born Feb. 6, 1910 in Kaldenhausen, Germany to Adolph and Johanna Koenen. The family came to the United States in 1926 and located in Iowa, where Hans worked for farmers. He later moved to Minnesota, where he continued his work on various farms. On Jan. 13, 1940 Hans married Edna Caroline Ogg. They later moved to Alderwood in 1946, where Hans worked for Milk Products Company for 21 years and then Bar S. Feedlot for nine and half years before retiring. He enjoyed traveling, hunting, fishing and spending time with his family. Hans is survived by his wife, Edna of 64 years; two sons, John and wife, Charlotte, and Richard and wife, Nancy; three daughters, Linda Thomas and husband, Ross, Corki Wilcox and Mary Sundstrom and husband, Dan; 17 grandchildren; and 15 great- grandchildren. He was preceded in death by his parents; two sisters; two brothers; and one son, Donald Koenen. Funeral services were held Monday, June 28, 2004, at 10 a.m. at Wells Funeral Home, Alderwood. Burial was held at Lower Valley Memorial Gardens, Alderwood. Those wishing to honor Hans memory may contribute to the Alderwood Church of God"}
{"Id":"1101163163213","Title":"Traffic safety fee set to increase","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"6/25/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"The 2004-05 school year will see an increase in the fee for traffic safety classes. Thursday night, members of the Alderwood School Board voted to increase the fee from 275 per student to 285. The increase in the fee for traffic safety will go toward helping cover an increase in the hourly rate and benefit costs for those who teach the class. Board approves lunch fee increase Thursday night, Alderwood School Board members voted to approve an increase in the cost of lunch throughout the district. The prices will increase by 10 at each of the schools. This will bring the cost of lunch at elementary schools from 1.45 to 1.55, and at the secondary schools from 1.65 to 1.75. School board awards milk bid The Alderwood School Board received three bids for its 2004-05 milk contract. The three bids were from Wilkinson Family Dairy, Inland Northwest Dairy and Wilcox Family Dairy. Thursday night, school board members voted to award the bid to Wilcox Family Dairy, which submitted the lowest bid. The dairy will provide the district half-pint containers of 1 percent milk at a cost of 15.8 per unit with a total cost of 52,851 during the year. It will provide half-pint containers of non-fat chocolate milk at a cost of just over 15.3 per unit for a total cost of 29,146. The dairy will also provide the district with half-pint containers of 1 percent or non-fat strawberry milk at a cost of 15.8 per unit for a total of 13,114. Board to discuss budget Aug. 26 The Alderwood School Board will meet at 6 p.m. on Aug. 26, in the Denny Blaine board room to discuss the adoption of the school district budget for the 2004-05 fiscal year. Copies of the budget are available at the Alderwood School District Administration Office"}
{"Id":"1101163163447","Title":"Berkompas recognized for theater lighting work","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"6/25/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"SIOUX CENTER, IOWA - A former Alderwood Christian High School student, Laura Berkompas, has been honored for her work in the theater while attending Dordt College. Berkompas is one of four Dordt students who recently received notification she was given a commendation from the National Selection Team of the Kennedy Center American College Theatre Festival for her work on the university's fall production of \"All My Sons.\" Nationwide, only 53 college productions received this recognition for special achievement in production for the 2001-02 academic year. Berkompas was cited for her work as lighting technician. \"All My Sons\" was just the second show in Dordt College's history to be invited to perform at the Region 5 American College Theatre Festival, which is made up of undergraduate and graduate theatre programs in Colorado, Iowa, Kansas, Minnesota, Missouri, Nebraska, North Dakota and South Dakota. \"I think that the commendation to all of us reflects the positive assessment of what we do as a department in a small college,\" said the director of the Dordt College play, Jeri Schelhaas. Also honored from Dordt College were Schelhaas for program development and production achievement, Paul Olsen for his performance as George Deever and Rachel Persenaire for her performance as Ann Deever"}
{"Id":"1101163178463","Title":"96 percent of Mabton grads are college bound","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"6/25/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"MABTON - A new phenomenon has been rippling through the Mabton School District for the past few years, turning students' attention to the possiblity that college is something for everyone. Four years ago, with the receipt of three different grants, the school district began focusing on the importance of post-secondary education and what it takes to gets students accepted into college. In that amount of time, the district has remolded its curriculum offerings, encouraged teachers, staff and students to talk about college and has done everything possible to ensure that students have what they need to get into a four-year university. The fruits of those labors have been paying off for the small Lower Valley school district. This year, 43 of the district's 45 graduates will be starting their post-secondary education in the fall. According to Mabton Supt. Kevin Chase, 53 percent of the graduates have been accepted to a four-year college, 32 percent have been accepted to community colleges and 11 percent have been accepted to a trade or technical school. These are numbers that Chase is proud of. \"The real difference is we began talking to the kids, telling them that college is for everyone, college is for you,\" Chase said. Despite Mabton's impressive graduation statistics, the numbers aren't something that changed overnight. Chase said the transition has been on its way since the district received several grants, including a Gates grant, a Gear Up grant and a Gates Achieves grant. \"These are three grants that focus on the same thing,\" Chase said, adding that they all work on helping prepare students for college. Chase explained that the Gates grant pushed the district to redesign how the district delivered education, ensuring that all students knew that they could get into college. He said the grant also paid for professional development opportunities for the staff. According to Chase, the Gear Up grant helps create early awareness of college opportunities for students, noting that students enter the Gear Up program in the sixth grade. He said Gear Up students are given the opportunity to go on college visits and attend college fairs. The Gates Achievers grant is something only 16 high schools in the state were awarded. Chase explained that the grant provides each of the 16 selected high schools 500 full ride scholarships to be distributed over the next 10 years to high school juniors. \"It's the confluence of these things,\" Chase said. However, it isn't just the attitude that has changed in the district. Instead, the whole system in the school district has changed. For example, Chase said for the past several years the Mabton School District has required students to complete a portfolio in order to graduate. A section of that portfolio requires students to do everything they would have to do in order to get accepted to college, including filling out college applications. According to Chase, the district has also done what it can to ensure that its graduation requirements are in line with what four-year universities require for college admission. Chase said for the past two or three years the high school has also began offering students advanced placement courses, meaning that students can help better prepare themselves for rigorous college course work. Although, making changes in the curriculum is only one part of the equation in the Mabton School District. Chase said another key factor has just been opening up and talking to students about college and what it takes to make it. This has involved planning visits to different colleges throughout the state, as well as bringing college representatives to Mabton for college fairs. Chase said one important element that also had to be addressed was ensuring that parents were also on board with the district's goals. \"When we take college visits, we invite parents to come along,\" Chase said, adding that for many parents it is their first time on a college campus. He said the district also holds informational evenings where parents are invited to the schools to learn why college is important and what it takes for students to be accepted. Chase said besides college visitations, students are also given the opportunity to observe different employment choices that colleges make available. He explained that the district is a member of the Greater Yakima Chamber of Commerce, and through that organization 247 students took part in job shadows last year. According to Chase, the main difference in the school district is that expectations have begun to shift and change. More and more students are thinking about college earlier and earlier and therefore getting themselves ready. Chase added that students now realize that if they have a decent SAT score, have taken some advanced placement classes and have shown that they can challenge themselves, chances are they will get accepted somewhere. Chase said now students in the district are asking administrators when things like the PSAT tests are being administered. \"They know all the check marks and all the boxes [for college admission],\" Chase said"}
{"Id":"1101163178760","Title":"School superintendent candidates meet Mabton parents","Author":"Mel Sacher","Time":"6/25/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"MABTON - The two Mabton School District Superintendent final candidates spent Wednesday and Thursday in the community answering a litany of questions, touring the facilities and meeting with the public. The candidates, Sandra Pasiero Davis and Luz Juarez Stump, each spent a day in Mabton this week getting a feel for the community, its needs and the role they would like to fill in it. Davis, who currently is the director of the migrant education regional office at Educational Service District (ESD) 105 in Yakima, listed in her objectives for obtaining the position that she wants to provide leadership in the Mabton School District so the teachers and administrators are supported and students are successful. She said it is also important that parents are partners in their children's education. Davis has been the director of the migrant education regional office since 1989. She coordinates and assists 32 school districts in south central Washington develop, implement, monitor and evaluate effective programs for Title I/LAP, migrant and bilingual students of all ages. Prior to being hired by the ESD, Davis served for 10 years as the bilingual/ESL coordinator for the Los Angeles Unified School District. She authored a Spanish language curriculum and has hired and supervised bilingual aides. She has also served as a reading specialist at Junipero Serra High School in Compton, Calif. Davis has a Master of Arts from Loyola Marymount University in California and a Bachelor of Arts from Barry University in Florida. She has also completed some of her doctoral studies at the University of California in Los Angeles. She also holds her initial administrator superintendent and principal credentials from Washington State. Stump is the principal of Martin Luther King Jr. Elementary School in Yakima. A native of Wapato, she worked in the Mattawa, Zillah, Kirkland, Wapato and Toppenish school districts before taking the principal position at the Yakima school four years ago. She said it is her desire to work in the Lower Valley, and the good things she has heard about Mabton schools has drawn her to the Mabton School District. The mother of five, Stump has an 18-year-old special needs son and a daughter who will be a senior at Eisenhower High School this fall. She also has an eighth grader, a fourth grader and a three-year-old. She has recently been accepted to Washington State University to pursue her superintendent credentials, which will take her away from the schools one Friday a month. A former high school basketball coach, Stump said she is dedicated to being at the both school and community oriented events. She also has plans to involve the parents and encourage them to participate in their children's education. The decision on who will be the next Mabton School District superintendent will be made Friday, July 2"}
{"Id":"1101163178994","Title":"Alderwood School Board votes to eliminate WASL","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"6/25/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"Looks of satisfaction in the crowd and a smattering of applause marked a decision made by the Alderwood School Board Thursday night. The local school directors voted to submit a legislative proposal to the Washington State School Districts Association (WSSDA) that would call for the replacement of WASL testing. The proposal was brought to the board by members of the Circle of Justice, a group that was organized by Nuestra Casa. Sister Mary Rita Rhode with Nuestra Casa said the group began meeting in February to talk about concerns they had regarding a variety of topics. However, in the end the group decided to focus their attention on one topic of concern for them, which ended up being the Washington Assessment of Student Learning (WASL) tests. Rhode said the group slowly grew from its original 12 members to more than 24 parents who come together on a regular basis to talk about what they can do to make a difference, especially when it comes to the WASL. According to Rhode, over the past several months the group has met with everyone from Alderwood Supt. Dr. Aaron Bones to Rep. Dan Newhouse. Rhode said the group asked Newhouse if he would work with the Circle of Justice to replace the WASL with a another test. However, the group of dedicated parents didn't stop there. Instead, they decided to take their concerns one step further. Thursday night, they talked to the Alderwood School Board about submitting a legislative proposal to WSSDA for inclusion in the organization's legislative program. Luce Balderas, a member of the Circle of Justice and a mother of five children, talked to the school board on behalf of the group. Speaking in Spanish she told the board members that children are making themselves ill thinking about the WASL test and what it could mean for them if they don't pass. \"There are other ways of testing to see if children are learning, such as the Measures of Academic Progress, which gives us, as parents, immediate feedback on how our children are doing in school,\" Balderas said. \"This kind of testing makes more sense to us and will help all in education provide for the gaps in student learning in a more timely manner than the WASL.\" She told the board that this is the reason they were asking them to submit the legislative proposal to WSSDA. The proposal, which school board members voted to approve, encourages WSSDA to support legislation that would \"do away\" with the WASL test and find other means of testing students across the state. School board member Bill Wells suggested that the board approach other districts in the Valley to see if they would also be interested in supporting the legislative call to action. . Ellie Olmsen can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or e-mail her at eOlmsen@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101163179229","Title":"Quintero, Galvan pull all A's at Mabton High","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"6/24/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"MABTON - Two students, freshman Luis E. Quintero and senior Jesus Galvan, earned perfect 4.00 grade point averages for the final quarter of the 2003-04 academic year at Mabton Jr./Sr. High School. The two teens were among the 26 students named to the \"Highest Honors\" list. To be eligible for that distinction, students had to maintain a minimum GPA of 3.50. \"Highest Honors\" achievers included seniors Maria Alvarado (3.90), Rosa Aviles (3.81), Robert Brambila (3.68), Alejandro Gutierrez (3.65), Andres Cervantes (3.62), Jaime Torres (3.58) and Blanca Diaz (3.58); junior Sirena Mireles (3.50); sophomores Alida Mendoza (3.95), Katie Beeman (3.90), Robert Arevalo (3.83), Guadalupe Gomez (3.81), Monica Vijil (3.75), Yadira Calzada (3.65), Mayra Diaz (3.62) and Erica Sanchez (3.54); and freshmen Daniela Angel (3.87), Jesus Rojas (3.85), Diana Nunez (3.81), Talisa Sotelo (3.77), Diana Valle (3.70), Moises Gutierrez (3.62), Shari Williams (3.61) and Noe Rosas (3.51). A total of 48 Mabton Jr./Sr. High School students were named to the final quarter regular honor roll, for maintaining GPA's between 3.00 and 3.49. They included eighth grader Cecelia Sanchez; freshmen Robert Marquez, Andres Tellez, Vicente Tovar, Josie Chase, Enrique Huecias, Lisa Hernandez, Brian Irby, Cesar Carrasco, Adriana Navarro and Zuleyma Orellana; sophomores Celida Diaz, Lorena Leon, Aurelia Ramos, Tomas Martinez, Jesica Orozco, Vicente Solis, Berta Torrres, Gilbert Uribe, Orlando Cervantes, Jessica Gonzalez, Jonathan Melendez and Regina Palomarez; juniors Rafaela Quintero, Sophia Beltran, Ryan Harris, Rosario Ortega, Erica Rios, Claro Calzada, James Magana, Rosa Reyna and Jaime Alaniz; and seniors Javier Galvan, Daniel Powell, Maximiano Ramirez, Betsy Fisher, Oswald Fonseca, David Tellez, Christina Vargas, Cassandra Geertsma, Rodolfo Carreon, Gonzalo Navarrete, Jose Gutierrez, Michael Alvarado, Juan Palacios, Gloria Vijil, Salvador Diaz and Luis Lorenzana"}
{"Id":"1101163179463","Title":"Nearly two dozen earn 4.00 GPA's at middle school","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"6/24/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"Approximately two dozen students at Alderwood's Harrison Middle School aced their grades the final quarter of the 2003-04 academic year. Of the 23 straight-A students, 18 were girls. The eight seventh graders who earned perfect 4.00 grade point averages were Samantha Bridger, Susana Carrasco, Sarah Palacios, Jaime Ramos, Kelsey Rollinger, David Salmeron, Cristal Sandoval and Megan Tyler. From the eighth grade class at Harrison, 15 students were named to the all-A honor roll. They included Jessica Alvarez, Brenda Barrios, Jacob Brandvold, Helen Burgard, Ashlie Coder, Cynthia Estudillo, Andrew Flodin, Carlos Martinez, Cassie Herndon, Jordyne Jaquish, Megan Razey, Nicole Southern, Beth Stiteler, Julie Wedam and Joceline Wynn. Numerous other Harrison Middle School students have been listed on the regular honor roll, for maintaining at least a 3.00 GPA the last quarter of the academic year. Regular honor roll students from the eighth grade included Sergio Abundiz, Anjelica Angel, Alejandra Alanis, Maria Alanis, Alondra Alarcon, Crystal Alejandre, Jeanette Alvarez, Jessica M. Alvarez, Jose Alvarez, Brittney Amaro, Melinda Amaro, Felipe Avalos, Erica Baldovinos, Juan Ballesteros, Matthew Barr, Alejandra Benitez, Juan Benitez, Alejandra Bobadilla, Norberto Bobadilla, Cameron Boboth, Lacy Bogart, Alyssa Boogerd, Aristeo Borges, Justin Bos, Andrea Bott, Patricia Camacho, Adrian Cantu, Deyma Cantu, Arianeli Carrillo, Beatriz Carrillo, Petra Carrillo, Araceli Castaneda, Carlos Castellanos, Vanessa Castillo, Rogelio Chavez, Adriana Cisneros, Amber Coder, Ryan Coder, Nathan Cornelius, Stephanie Cornwell, Rachel Corona, Ryan Dawson, Angela De La Barrera, Challea DeCann, Emmanuel Delgado, Derrick Denson, Dacia Drollinger, Maegen Elizondo, Araceli Espindola, Javier Estrada, Angelina Fernandez, Kassandra Flores, Sandra Flores, Mitchell Gabino, Adriana Martinez, Bertha Martinez, Martin Martinez, Stephanie Martinez, Pedro Garibaldo, Stephanie Garza, Ana Gomez, Joshua Gonzales, Juan Gonzalez, Stephanie Gonzalez, Amanda Graham, Kassaundra Guillen, Maria Gutierrez, Diedree Hall, Roy Haringa, Aaron Harvey, Alexander Henry, Yesenia Herrera, Jordan James, Kaitlin Jeske, Matthew Jongsma, Amber Kaiser, Jonas Lain, Omar Leon, Araceli Lepez, Judith Licona, Jonas Linde, Alyssa Longoria, Guillermo Lopez, Nancy Lopez, Elizabeth Macias, Martha Macias, Angelita Madrigal, Julie Marin, Blanca Martinez, Christella Martinez, Jessica Martinez, Maria Martinez, Paloma Mata, Micah NcNerney, Kelsea Means, Sarah Melendrez, Genesis Mendez, Maritza Mendoza, Brittany Messmore, Melissa Miller, Jose Moncada, Maria Montero, Riley Moore, Omar Olivarez, David Palomarez, Kyle Pearson, Araceli Peralta, Luis Perez, Daniel Pina, Beverleigh Quenan, Nicholas Radach, Catalina Ramirez, Silvia Ramirez, Alexis Ramos, Jose Ramos, Victoria Ramos, Jeronimo Rangel, Brice Rinehold, Brittany Ritchey, Julianna Robert, Dahna Rodriguez, Damariz Rodriguez, Nanci Rodriguez, Ryan Roehl, Kayla Rollinger, Isaac Romero, Ana Ruiz, Angelica Ruiz, Erica Sabedra, Lucerito Salcedo, Desiree Samaniego, Mario Sandoval, Mathew Santoy, Claire Schilperoort, Mayra Serna, Emily Shuttleworth, Alejandro Solis, Dora Sosa, Melissa Stamschror, Ashley Talbert, Mayra Tapia, Juanita Tellez, Emily Van de Graaf, Eric Vargas, Ismael Vargas, Jose Vargas, Jovan Vargas, Marisol Vazquez, Monica Velazquez, Jessica Vidales, Gilberto Villalobos, Joseph Villanueva, Erick Vizguerra, Alyson Waddle, Michael Watts, Nigel Weenink, Ashley Wolfe, Kraig Wyatt, Shana Zamarron, Anika Zamora and Jamie Zijlstra. Seventh graders named to the regular honor roll were Tristan Abbott, Alma Angel, Monica Almeida, Catalina Alvarez, Erica Anderson, Lupita Arriaga, Baltazar Avalos, Araceli Baldovinos, Luis Ballesteros, Alberto Barcenas, Rebeca Barrios, Daysi Bautista, Thomas Bieber, Crystal Bonilla, Jefferson Bonny, Ashley Bridges, Abel Bueno, Alejandra Carrasco, Jesus Carrillo, Gabriela Castillo, Lorenzo Chavez, Rubi Chavez, Elvira Chiprez, Adam Cleghorn, Noemi Correa, Ramon Cuevas, Ruby Cuevas, Gabriela Del Angel, Randy DeRuyter, Molly Dolan, Ashleigh Emery, Alexis Espindola, Ana Espindola, Fermin Fernandez, Virginia Frausto, Betsie Gabino, Ivonne Galindo, Juan Galindo, Maritza Godines, Maria Gomez, Maribel Gomez, Crystal Gonzalez, Gracen Gonzalez, Jessica Gonzalez, Cindy Gudino, Jessica Guizar, Levi Hagert, Antassia Hammond, Autumn Hathaway, Aarika Hernandez, Jeanette Hernandez, Moises Hernandez, Jessica Isquierdo, Anna Jensen, Mayra Juarez, Sarah Kilian, Anthony Louie, Kassandra Luther, Jose Madrigal, Monica Martinez, Soledad Martinez, Kathia Medina, Hector Mendez, Janelle Mendoza, Laura Mendoza, Yesenia Mendoza, Daniel Meza, Ignacio Mojica, Cody Murrey, Andrew Myers, Travis Nash, Udi Nassar, Gabriela Navarro, Haydee Navarro, Nelida Ochoa, Crystal Pacheco, Shianne Partida, Thailee Paxton, Samantha Pearson, Carla Perez, Edgar Perez, Diana Picazo, Yesenia Quiroz, Francisco Ramirez, Julio Ramirez, Maria Ramirez, Maria Ramos, Rocio Ramos, Teresa Ramos, David Reihs, Judith Reyes, Elizabeth Rodriguez, Eric Rodriguez, Georgena Rodriguez, Jacob Rogers, Karina Romero, Steven Romero, Jasper Rubalcava, Christopher Sambrano, Katya Sanchez, Alejandra Sandoval, Laura Sandoval, Sonia Saucedo, Maria Serrano, Emily Slinker, Jerica Wells, Krystal Snyder, Jesus Solis, Hali Soto, Henedina Tavares, Kelsee Thomas, Fernando Torres, Oscar Torres, Andres Vargas, Pedro Vargas, Naomy Velasco, Jessica Verduzco, Hannah Seeger, Katelyn Wutzke, Oscar Zamorano and Yesenia Zaragoza"}
{"Id":"1101163179697","Title":"Sports Briefs","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"6/24/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"1-Column Football/cheer camp scheduled GRANDVIEW - The Grandview Parks and Recreation Department is offering its annual football/cheerleading camp to boys and girls ages 6 to 12 on Thursday, July 8. To be held at Rich Leenhouts Stadium on the Grandview High School campus, the event will kick off at 7 p.m. Football participants will compete in a punt, throw and sprint contest. Those interested in cheerleading will have the opportunity to learn moves, jumps and cheers from the Grandview High School cheer squad. Parents can register their child on-site, beginning at 6:45 p.m. The cost to participate is 1. Ribbons will be awarded to each participant. Wild cow milkers, mutton busters, mini-bull riders urged to sign up TOPPENISH - Toppenish Pow Wow & Rodeo officials will be taking sign-ups for wild cow milking, mutton busting and mini-bull riding this coming Saturday, Sunday and Monday. This year's Toppenish rodeo will be staged July 1-3. Cowboys and cowgirls interested in the wild cow milking, mutton busting and mini-bull riding competitions must register to compete June 26-28, by calling Sharon Wells (865-5077) between 8 a.m. and 8 p.m. The mini-bull riding event is new to the rodeo this year. Each of the three nights, six mini-bucking bulls will be loaded into the chutes during the rodeo's intermission, giving youngsters a chance to ride like the professionals. The entry fee for each mini-bull rider is 15, and only six entries will be accepted for each night. Entrants must be between the ages of 9 and 14. A buckle will be awarded to the winner each night. For wild cow milkers there will be two divisions an open category and a 40 and over category. Engraved Montana Silversmith buckles will be given to the winners in both divisions. Entry fees are set at 100 per team. Entries will be limited to six teams per night. Aspiring rough stock riders, 3 years of age and up, are invited to sign up for the mutton busting each night. Participants must weigh 50 pounds or less. Trophies will be given to each rider. The entry fee is the price of admission to the rodeo"}
{"Id":"1101163179932","Title":"Obituaries","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"6/24/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"EARL WRIGHT GASAWAY EARL WRIGHT GASAWAY Earl Wright Gasaway, 57, of Katy, Texas and a former resident of Prosser passed away Tuesday, June 15, 2004. He was born June 17, 1946 in Clinton, Ark. Earl grew up in Arkansas and southern California, graduating from high school in El Centro, Calif. On Aug. 18, 1982 he married Vicki O Meara Hunsinger in Prosser. A combat veteran of the U.S. Navy Sea Bees, Earl served his country honorably during the Vietnam War. Upon completion of his service Earl earned an Associate degree from Shoreline College in Seattle, and went on to a distinguished career in law enforcement with the Washington State Patrol. Earl retired from service at the rank of detective in 1985. Earl s second career was in the auto industry, where he was a general manager for Tom Denchel Ford and Hood River Ford in Washington and Oregon. Earl spent his life in service to others. He was a member and officer of the Prosser Rotary Club and the White Salmon Rotary club for many years. He was especially active in the Rotary International Youth Exchange Program. Whenever Earl had some free time, he would spend it as a volunteer doing community service or assisting someone in need. Earl loved people and no one was ever a stranger for long with Earl. Earl believed that the most valuable thing you could give to others was your time, and he spent his life giving freely of his time and energy. Earl was an active participant in life. He enjoyed street rods, golfing, skiing, sailing, and was a talented handyman . Earl was one of the founders of the Prosser Wine and Food Fair. He traveled the world, but was always glad to come home to family and friends. His greatest enjoyment came from his grandchildren, Jessa and Jasper. Earl had a great joy for life, with a quick wit and a sparkle in his eye. He enjoyed sharing stories and laughter with good friends. He will always hold a special place in our hearts and will be missed from our daily lives. Earl fought a long a gallant battle against a terrible disease. We know he is with God and ever Earl, he is watching over us all. A beloved son, father, brother, uncle, and husband, Earl is survived by his wife, Vicki O Meara Hunsinger; his mother, Vernell Gasaway of Heber Springs, Ark.; his daughter, Trisha Lyons and husband, Edward; granddaughter, Jessa Lynn of Katy; his son, Will Hunsinger and wife, Brenda; and grandson, Jasper of Hermosa Beach, Calif.; his sisters, Judith Williams and Elizabeth Horn; and brothers, Jackie, Carl, John and Mark. He was preceded in death by his father, Eulas Gasaway. In celebration of Earl s life, the Rev. Frank Maycock will conduct a memorial service Saturday, June 26, 2004, at 11 a.m. at the First Presbyterian Church in Porsser, with burial at Prosser Cemetery. If you wish, in lieu of flowers, please consider a donation in Earl s name to Pancreatic Action Network, 2221 Rosecrans Ave., Suite 131, El Segundo, Calif. 90245"}
{"Id":"1101163180197","Title":"Rotary speaker charter school advocate","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"6/23/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"When voters step into the voting booth this fall there is a very good chance that they will be asked to make a decision on the fate of charter schools. Wednesday morning, Glen Blomgren, founder of the Christa McAuliffe Academy in Yakima and candidate for Yakima County Commissioner, spoke to members of the Alderwood Daybreak Rotary Club about the concept of charter schools. Blomgren described charter schools as a \"new kind of public school\" that is paid for by tax dollars, run by a non-profit organization and is freed from many of the regulations that public schools are typically held to. He added that charter schools do not charge tuition. According to Blomgren there are currently more than 3,000 charter schools in operation throughout the country. He added that 40 states in the nation, as well as Washington, D.C. have laws that allow for the creation of charter schools. Blomgren added that the referendum involving charter schools that will likely be on the ballot this fall is a very modest proposal. Blomgren said the referendum would allow for five new charter schools to be created across the state each year for the next three years, then 10 a year for the three years following. He also explained that charter schools have to either be sponsored by the local school district or by the Office of the Superintendent of Public Instruction (OSPI). Blomgren said OSPI will oversee all of the charter schools in the state, closing them if they do not meet the requirements of their charter after five years. \"One thing I like about charter schools is the accountability,\" Blomgren said. He said charter schools also help create more high quality public school choices. Blomgren said he feels charter schools are good for students, parents and teachers"}
{"Id":"1101163180447","Title":"Obituaries","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"6/23/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"KATHRYN MCDONALD CHARVET KATHRYN MCDONALD CHARVET Kathryn (Kay) McDonald Charvet, 63, died Monday, June 21, 2004, at her home in Grandview. She was born Sept. 19, 1940 in Reno, Nev. to John and Dorothy (Gibson) McDonald. She attended San Juaquin Memorial School from kindergarten through 10th grade. Her family then moved to Sacramento, Calif., where she graduated from Loretto High School. She attended Gonzaga University, where she began her studies in engineering, but later majored in English and education. On June 15, 1963 she married Henry Joseph Charvet in Sacramento. In May 1965 they settled in Grandview to raise their family and begin a career of farming. She is survived by her husband of 41 years, Henry J. Charvet; three children, Karen Triplett (Bren) of Colorado Springs, Colo., Hal Charvet (Beth) of Kirkland and Kim Skok (Gavin) of Issaquah; and eight granddaughters. A Rosary will be held Thursday, June 24, 2004, at 7 p.m. at Wells Funeral Home, Grandview. Mass of Christian Burial will be held Friday, June 25, 2004, at 10 a.m. at Blessed Sacrament Church. Interment will follow at Mabton Cemetery. Wells Funeral Home, Grandview, is in charge of arrangements. JAKE MAUCH Jake Mauch, 88, long-time Alderwood resident, died Monday, June 21, 2004, at Hillcrest Manor. He was born Sept. 8, 1915 in Robinson, N.D. to Jacob and Emma (Wacker) Mauch. On Aug. 22, 1936 he married Irene Haeger in Bell Fouche, S.D., later moving to Washington to make their home. He farmed and worked for Henry Weckter and the sugar beet factory in Toppenish. They later purchased 80 acres of land, where they farmed and had a small dairy. He also worked various jobs along with his farming, custom hauling, working at Del Monte in Toppenish and cutting meat for Pete Hoyte Market. In 1950 he sold his farm and went to barbering in the Valley, which he enjoyed for many years. In 1964 he retired and moved to Alderwood. He is survived by his wife of 67 years, Irene Mauch of Alderwood; four daughters, Betty Brown of Beatty, Ore., Arlene Poole of Union Gap, Billie Clements of Toppenish and Mona Worrell of Alderwood; one brother, Reuben Mauch of Toppenish; 15 grandchildren; and 17 great-grandchildren. He was preceded in death by his parents; two sons, Donald and Howard Mauch; five brothers, Art, Dave, Ronald, Sam and Ben; and one sister, Alvina Moser. Viewing and visitation will be held Friday, June 25, 2004, from 1to 8 p.m. at Wells Funeral Home, Alderwood. Funeral services will be held Saturday, June 26, 2004, at 10 a.m. at Wells Funeral Home, Alderwood, with burial to follow at Elmwood Cemetery, Toppenish. Wells Funeral Home is in charge of arrangements. JOSEFINA PEREZ ALVAREZ Josefina Perez Alvarez, 25, of Mabton passed away Sunday, June 20, 2004, due to injuries sustained in an auto accident. She was born March 19, 1979 in Cueramaro, Mexico to Salvador and Olga (Perez) Alvarez. She received her education in Grandview. Josefina had been currently employed at Pizza Hut in Grandview. She enjoyed spending time with her children and having a good time. Josefina also collected angels which she enjoyed very much. She has now passed on to be an angel of God. She had many friends that knew the loving and kind hearted person that Josie always was. Her particular laugh, look and sense of humor will always be remembered. The love that she had for her daughters can never be replaced for they were her world. She is survived by her parents, Salvador and Olga (Perez) Alvarez of Grandview; two daughters, Alexandra Reyna and Angel Giovanni Reyna, both of Mabton; one brother, Javier Alvarez of Mabton; one sister, Abigail Alvarez of Grandview; her grandmother, Antonia Salvador of Mexico and grandparents, Dorotea Perez and Santiago Perez Munoz of Grandview; and numerous aunts, uncles, nieces, nephews, cousins and friends. Viewing and visitation will be held Wednesday, June 23, 2004, from 3 to 8 p.m. with an evening service at 6:30 at Wells Funeral Home, Alderwood. Mass of Christian Burial will be held Thursday, June 24, 2004, at noon at Immaculate Conception Catholic Church, Mabton, with burial to follow at Mabton Cemetery. Wells Funeral Home is in charge of arrangements. ENRIQUE GONZALEZ Enrique Gonzalez, 19, of Mabton passed away Sunday, June 20, 2004, due to injuries sustained in an auto accident. He was born Oct. 29, 1984 in Mexico to Rafael and Maria Carmen (Reyna) Gonzalez. He spent his early years in Mexico with his family until moving to Mabton in 1996, where he attended school. Enrique enjoyed spending time with his friends and family, and he was a very happy person with many dreams to fulfill. He is survived by his mother, Maria Carmen Reyna of Mabton; three brothers, Leonard Gonzalez Reyna, Christian Rafael Gonzalez and Joann Jesus Gonzalez, all of Mabton; his grandparents, Guadalupe Serrano and Maria Pimintel; and many aunts, uncles and cousins. He was preceded in death by his father, Rafael Gonzalez. Viewing and visitation will be held Thursday, June 24, 2004, from 3 to 8 p.m. with a Rosary to be recited at 6 p.m. at Wells Funeral Home, Alderwood. Mass of Christian Burial will be held Friday, June 25, 2004, at 2 p.m. at Immaculate Conception Catholic Church in Mabton, with burial to follow at Mabton Cemetery. Wells Funeral Home is in charge of arrangements. RAFAEL GONZALEZ Rafael Gonzalez, 42, of Mabton passed away Sunday, June 20, 2004, due to injuries sustained in an auto accident. He was born Feb. 7, 1962 in Mexico to Jesus and Guadalupe (Serrano) Gonzalez. In 1982 he married Maria Carmen Reyna in Mexico. They together made Mexico their home until moving to Mabton in 1996. Rafael worked for various farmers in the Valley. Rafael cherished time spent with his family and enjoyed helping others. He is survived by his wife, Maria Carmen Gonzalez of Mabton; three sons, Leonardo Gonzalez Reyna, Christian Rafael Gonzalez and Joann Jesus Gonzalez, all of Mabton, brothers and sisters, Jose Mendoza, Sofia Gonzalez and Conception Gonzalez, all of Mexico, Maria Gonzalez of California, Daniel Gonzalez of Pasco and Salvador Gonzalez of Kennewick; and his mother, Guadalupe Serrano of Mexico. He was preceded in death by his father; one son, Enrique; and one brother, Daniel. Viewing and visitation will be held Thursday, June 24, 2004, from 3 to 8 p.m. with a Rosary to be held at 6 p.m. at Wells Funeral Home, Alderwood, Mass of Christian Burial will be held Friday, June 25, 2004, at 2 p.m. at Immaculate Conception Catholic Church, Mabton, with burial to follow at Mabton Cemetery. Wells Funeral Home is in charge of arrangements. JESUS PIMENTEL REYNA Jesus Pimentel Reyna, 26, of Mabton passed away Sunday, June 20, 2004, due to injuries sustained in an auto accident. He was born Sept. 4, 1977 in Mexico to Teodoro Reyna and Maria Del Socorro Pimentel. He received his education in Mabton and was currently attending college at Columbia Basin Community College in Pasco. Jesus was employed at Hanford, where he worked in construction. He enjoyed spending time with his family, playing video games with his daughters and fishing with his brothers. He is survived by his parents, Teodoro Reyna and Maria Del Socorro Pimentel Reyna; two daughters, Alexandra Reyna and Angel Giovanni Reyna, both of Mabton; and six brothers, Juan Manuel Reyna of Pasco, Teodoro Reyna Jr. and Jaime Reyna, both of Alderwood, Luis Alberto Reyna, Miguel Angel Reyna and Enrique Reyna, all of Mabton. Viewing and visitation will be held Wednesday, June 23, 2004, from 3 to 8 p.m. with a Rosary to be held at 5:30 p.m. at Wells Funeral Home, Alderwood. Mass of Christian Burial will be held Thursday, June 24, 2004, at noon at Immaculate Conception Catholic Church in Mabton, with burial to follow at Mabton Cemetery. Wells Funeral Home is in charge of arrangements"}
{"Id":"1101163197104","Title":"17-year-old girl aces second hole at Black Rock Creek","Author":"Bob Story","Time":"6/22/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"Maybe it was a case of one-upping her grandfather, Bob Rice. Or perhaps, it might have been that the lessons she's been taking from PGA club professional Jeff Bender are quickly paying off. Then again, it's possible that her cousin, Brandon Rice, may be the lucky charm that was responsible for it all. However you figure it, 17-year-old Jaime Kolb pulled off a rare accomplishment yesterday when she scored a hole-in-one on No. 2 at Alderwood's Black Rock Creek Golf Course. The Couer d'Alene High School student, who'll start her senior year this coming fall, just took up the game of golf this past spring. Although she is a resident of Idaho, Kolb is a regular visitor to Alderwood. Up until a week or so ago, her parents owned and operated a mini-mart in Alderwood. She also has numerous relatives living here in the Lower Alderwood Valley. It was three of those family members she was golfing with Monday who can attest to the ace she collected on the 155-yard, par-3 second hole at Black Rock Creek. In Kolb's foursome were her grandfather, Bob Rice, and her two cousins, Brandon and Trey Rice. Kolb pulled out a 5-iron yesterday when she arrived on the second tee block. The club, or more accurately, her swing, worked to perfection as the ball looped straight to the pin and bounded into the cup. It was the first hole-in-one the second green at Black Rock Creek has ever yielded, since the hole was reconfigured from a par-4 to a par-3 three years ago. The physically fit, unassuming teen is really just a novice when it comes to playing golf. She didn't take an interest in the sport until this past April. But, as yesterday illustrates, Kolb is a quick learner. She credits part of her game to Bender, the PGA club pro at the Alderwood course, from whom she has been taking lessons. \"Jaime has a lot of potential,\" said Bender. \"She has a real strong swing, which makes it a lot of fun to coach,\" Bender added. Some of her talent may have rubbed off from her father, Dan Kolb, an avid golfer with whom she teamed this past Sunday in a Father's Day tournament at Black Rock Creek. \"I wish I could have been in the group with her (Monday) to see it,\" said her father. Any luck involved with yesterday's feat? Well ironically, it was the 17-year-old girl's cousin Brandon, two years her senior, who was with their grandfather, Bob, last year when the elder Rice picked up a hole-in-one at Black Rock Creek. Could be that a few more golfers may be trying to get the 19-year-old lucky charm to join their foursome"}
{"Id":"1101163197385","Title":"Briefs","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"6/21/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"1-Column S side High has report cards, diplomas available 2004 graduates of Alderwood High School can pick up their diplomas at the school now, between 8 a.m. and noon and 1 and 3 p.m. Mondays through Fridays. The end of school year report cards are also available to be picked up by local prep students. Driver s license law changes As of a week and a half ago, the state has introduced changes that may allow individuals to drive under certain circumstances when their license is suspended. A new type of license, called an occupational/restricted license, replaces the occupational driver's license that allowed an individual to drive to and from work while serving the terms of a driver's license suspension or revocation. The new law makes more drivers eligible to drive while their license is suspended. The occupational/restricted licenses will be issued for the following uses: to drive to and from an individual's place of employment; for an occupation or trade that makes it essential to operation a motor vehicle; to undergo continuing health care; to attend an educational institution or course of study that leads to a diploma, degree or other certification; to undergo substance abuse treatment or for participation in 12-step group meetings; for an apprenticeship, Work First, on-the-job training or welfare to work program; and to provide continuing care for another who is dependent upon the applicant. The new law also increases the fee for obtaining this type of restricted driving privilege, from 25 to 100. American Legion Auxiliary installs 2004-05 officers Alderwood Unit #73 of the American Legion Auxiliary installed its 2004-05 officers at its June meeting. The newly installed officers include Lila Furukawa as president, Joyce Taylor as first vice president, Pat Maynard as second vice president, Beverly Ice as secretary, Dorothy Schaneman as treasurer, Barbara Atherton as chaplain, Floy Hansen as sergeant-at-arms and Terry Morrow as historian. As the president, Furukawa will be the unit's delegate at the Department of Washington American Legion Auxiliary state convention, to be held July 12-17 in Bellevue. The Auxiliary's primary project of offering poppies to the public was completed in May. Procceds from the poppy sales benefit veterans who are hospitalized. This year's poppy days chairman was Maynard. Playground program taking registrations GRANDVIEW - The Grandview Parks and Recreation Department is now accepting registrations on a first-come, first-serve basis for its summer playground program. The day camp is open to boys and girls ages 6 to 12. Due to limited space and resources, the program is open only to the first 50 youths who register. Mail-in registration will not be accepted. The program begins Wednesday, July 7, and lasts until Friday, Aug. 13. It is held Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. The day camp will be held at Eastside Park on Mondays and Wednesdays, and at Westside Park on Fridays. A free lunch will be provided thanks to the Grandview School District's summer food service program. The registration fee is set at 25 for Grandview youngsters, 37.50 for those youths who reside outside the city limits"}
{"Id":"1101163197619","Title":"State's test scores show schools making headway","Author":"Mel Sacher","Time":"6/21/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Local school districts are making gains on statewide and standardized tests, but they still have a ways to go to catch the state average. State Superintendent of Public Instruction Terry Bergeson said that overall achievement levels on the Iowa Tests of Basic Skills (ITBS), a national test that assesses third and sixth grade students across the state, remain strong. She added that gaps between the highest performing students and their lower testing peers has narrowed. The state reading score average for third graders has stayed the same, in the 58th percentile. The third grade math scores have also remained the same, in the 67th percentile. In Mabton, third grade reading scores dropped one percentile from 27 in the 2002-03 school year to 26 in the 2003-04 school year at Artz-Fox Elementary School. Math scores increased from the 30th percentile to the 33rd percentile. In 2004, the composite math and reading score stayed the same as 2003, at the 29th percentile. In the Alderwood School District third grade reading scores were on the rise at two of the community's three elementary schools. Third grade scores at Pioneer Elementary School went from the 30th percentile in 2002-03 to the 36th percentile in the 2003-04 school year. Students' scores at Washington Elementary School raised from the 35th percentile to the 39th percentile. At Outlook Elementary School scores sank one percentile point from 28 to 27. ITBS math scores remained the same at Pioneer Elementary School. Students tested in the 41st percentile in the 2002-03 and the 2003-04 school years. Students at Washington Elementary School increased one percentile point, raising from the 45th to the 46th percentile. At Outlook Elementary School students dropped three percentile points from the 37th percentile in 2002-03 to the 34th percentile in 2003-04. In the composite math and reading scores, Pioneer students went from the 35th percentile to the 39th. Students at Washington raised their scores from the 40th percentile to the 43rd percentile. Statewide, sixth grade students' reading scores remained the same as 2003 in the 55th percentile. In 2003 language scores for Washington sixth graders were in the 56th percentile. They went down one point to the 55th percentile in 2004. For the third year in a row sixth grade math scores have remained the same, in the 58th percentile. At Chief Kamiakin Elementary School in Alderwood, reading scores dropped from the 29th percentile in 2002-03 to the 25th percentile in 2003-04, but the students showed marked improvements in math and language. Math scores jumped from the 29th percentile to the 33rd percentile, and language scores increased from the 36th percentile to the 40th percentile. The core total of the three scores raised from the 29th percentile in 2003 to the 32nd percentile in 2004. Executive Director of Instruction and Learning for the Alderwood School District, Deannie Dunbar, said that the students in the local school district have made improvements in scores. Sixth grade students at Artz-Fox Elementary noticed improvements in the language and math scores. Mabton sixth graders' scores increased from 36th percentile in 2002-03 to 40th percentile in 2004. Math scores were increased from the 29th percentile in 2002-03 to the 33rd percentile this past school year. Reading scores dropped from the 29th percentile to the 25th percentile. Mabton sixth graders' core total for 2004 was in the 32nd percentile compared to the 29th percentile in 2002-03. Mabton Superintendent Kevin Chase said he is pleased with the ITBS test results. \"We made some good gains last year and we were able to hold those scores,\" said Chase. He said that in Mabton they are seeing students who once tested low, move into the middle testing ranges and those from the middle ranges moving to the higher testing ranges. \"We're moving kids from the lowest core tile to the middle and those from the middle to the highest,\" said Chase. The ITBS is a norm-referenced test given annually to Washington's third and sixth graders. \"It is a tremendous compliment to our teachers and other school staff that our students continue to do well on the ITBS,\" said Burgeson. \"But even with this consistency and gains in many areas, we still have a significant achievement gap for some of our students. We need to continue working together to help all students achieve our state's learning standards and erase the gap.\" . Mel Sacher can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or e-mail msacher@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101163197854","Title":"Local youngsters invited to take part in Yakima Valley Band and Cheer Day","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"6/21/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"GRANDVIEW - Learning what it takes to make the most of a march down a parade route is something band members from throughout the area will be doing as part of the first ever Yakima Valley Band and Cheer Day, which is scheduled to take place Aug. 12, during the Yakima Valley Fair and Rodeo in Grandview. The event will pair members of area marching bands and cheerleading squads with staff members from the University of Washington. Among those who will be helping lead the event is Dr. Brad McDonald, University of Washington marching band director. The one-day camp will bring the students together in sectionals to work on performance techniques and later marching techniques, while members of local cheerleading squads come together with the university squad to learn some new moves. Registration for the camp begins at 7:30 a.m. in the main lobby of Grandview High School, where students will spend the day working together until the community parade that evening. The students will have a chance to showcase what they learned during the day as they march down the parade route as one large musical group. Following the parade the students will gain free admission into the fair, where they will put together a large college-style pep rally. The cost to take part in the event is 5 per person, which includes a t-shirt, lunch, snacks and admission into the fair. Those individuals interested in taking part can contact Grandview Chamber of Commerce President Jim Herriman at 882-4085"}
{"Id":"1101163198088","Title":"County enters into agreement with City of Grandview","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"6/18/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"GRANDVIEW - Later this year work is scheduled to begin on the installation of two traffic signals along Wine Country Road in Grandview. Tuesday morning, Yakima County commissioners approved an agreement with the City of Grandview for certified acceptance services for the two projects. Grandview City Administrator Jim Sewell explained that since funds from the Transportation Improvement Board are being used to help pay for the signalization projects a certified acceptance agency needs to ensure on behalf of the state that the funds are being used properly. Sewell said this a role the county plays for many smaller communities within its boundaries. The signalization projects include the replacement of the current signal at the intersection of Wine Country Road and Grandridge Road, and the installation of a new signal at the intersection of Wine Country Road and Elm Street"}
{"Id":"1101163198369","Title":"Entertainment Briefs","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"6/18/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"1-Column Prosser to host Scottish Festthis Saturday PROSSER - Everything Scottish, from Celtic music to Highland games such as an anvil launch to sheep dog trials, will be out in plain view tomorrow at the Port of Benton Wine & Food Park in Prosser. Gates to the park open for the annual Scottish Fest this Saturday, June 19, at 9 a.m. Organizers say festival goers will be treated to Celtic music and pipe bands while watching primitive arts and crafts exhibitions. Also scheduled are a sheep dog trial, Highland games, an anvil launch, Celtic story tellers and numerous children's activities. Theme foods and beverages will be available for purchase, as well. In addition, organizers have arranged for a U.S. Stick Dressing championship tomorrow. Admission costs range from 5 for adults to 3 for senior citizens and children. Health career camps for youths scheduled There's no reason for your children to be bored this summer. Parents are being encouraged to check out several health career camps for their youngsters, two of which are offered here in Yakima County. Ellen O'Brien Saunders, executive director of the Workforce Training and Education Coordinating Board, said a health career camp will give youths an opportunity to learn first-hand what it's like to be an emergency medical technician, doctor, registered nurse or cardiovascular technician. In a series of week-long career camps being held throughout Washington state this summer, students will observe operations, participate in mock emergencies, practive CPR and wear actual scrubs as they find out what it takes to work in health care. They will also attend lectures, visit labs, hospices, hospitals and various emergency medical services. In addition, information will be provided on financial aid packages that are available to youths, and how to plan the remainder of their high school career more effectively. \"It's an opportunity for them to explore jobs in health care, and find out first-hand what additional classes they need in high school to make the most of their postsecondary education,\" said Saunders. She said camps normally are free to participants who are between the ages of 13 and 21. The two health career camps being offered in Yakima County are scheduled for June 21 through July 30 and July 5-9. The first is a six-week summer vocation health career program for high school students. The second is a math and science institute for health careers for middle school students, to be held at YVCC. The contact person for both camps is Maria Benavides (509-865-7630, extension 204). Early Music Festival planned for August LEAVENWORTH - Early music performed on period instruments will fill the air of Leavenworth Aug. 17-22. The first ever Icicle Creek Early Music Festival will be held those six days. Beneath Ponderosa pines beside the glacier-fed Icicle Creek in the Cascade Mountain foothills near Leavenworth, four performances of baroque and renaissance chamber music will be presented. There will also be daily lectures, demonstrations and workshops at the Icicle Creek Music Center. Internationally known performers Stephen Stubbs of Bremen, Germany on lute and baroque guitar, Hans-Jurgen Schnoor of Lubeck, Germany on fortepiano and harpsichord, Susie Napper of Montreal on viola da gamba and baroque cello, and Bruce Haynes of Montreal on baroque oboe have committed to performing at the event. The festival performances will include \"Cristofori in Italy and Germany\" on Aug. 17 at 7:30 p.m. at Canyon Wren Recital Hall, \"The King's Own Music: Louis XIV and Frederick the Great\" on Aug. 19 at 7:30 p.m. at the Grunewald Guild, \"War and Peace: Renaissance and Baroque\" on Aug. 20 at 7:30 p.m. at Canyon Wren Recital Hall, and \"The Baroque Piano and J.S. Bach\" on Aug. 21 at 7:30 p.m. at Sleeping Lady Chapel Theater. Billed as an artistic retreat, the Icicle Creek Music Center is an educational facility and performance venue. Completed in 2003, the facilities include workshop and practice rooms, cabin lodging and two ideal sites for early music performances. The cost to attend the six-day program is 420. Inquiries should be directed to (800) 281-8026 or icicleearlymusic@hotmail.com. Hop Rod Brew Fest returns to Mabton area MABTON - Puterbaugh Farms, located between Alderwood and Mabton, will again be the site of the Hop Rod Brew Festival. This year's fest, as tradition dictates, will again feature beer and wine sampling, a hot rod show and shine, and hot food grilled by the Knights of Columbus. Children's activities will also be set up so families can attend. A special treat at this year's fest, scheduled for Saturday, July 10 from 5 to 10 p.m., will be the guitar and vocal talents of Stan Fortier. Admission costs will be 7 for adults and 3 for everyone under 21 years of age. All proceeds will benefit the Knights of Columbus Scholarship Fund. Puterbaugh Farms is located on Green Valley Road, just off Midvale Road that runs south from Alderwood. Monster trucksat fair racewayall this weekend YAKIMA - The major league of monster trucks returns to the State Fair Raceway in Yakima June 18-20. Headlining this year's show is Grave Digger six-time World Monster Truck Champion Tom Meents, driving Maximum Destruction. Also scheduled to appear are El Toro Loco, Obsession, local Tuff trucks, the Quad Warriors and the State Fair Raceway Hornets. Each performance will feature Monster Truck racing, as well as Monster Truck freestyle. Friday and Saturday, gates open at 6 p.m. with racing at 8 p.m. Sunday, gates open at noon with racing at 2 p.m. Friday, all kids 12 and under will be given a free toy Monster Truck. Sunday, all dads will get in free for Father's Day with a paid family member admission. Lou Rawls to perform in Seattle in mid-July SEATTLE - Lou Rawls will take the stage five times July 8-11 at Dimitriou's Jazz Alley in Seattle. With a voice as distinctive and instantly rcognizable as any in music, Rawls will perform an 8 p.m. set on July 8, a pair of 8 and 10:15 p.m. sets on July 9-10, and two more 6:30 and 8:45 p.m. sets on July 11. Throughout Rawls' career there has been one constant a voice that critics call sweet as sugar, soft as velvet, strong as steel and smooth as butter. In his 40-some years as a recording artist, spanning an astonishing 70-plus albums, three Grammy awards and 13 Grammy nominations, Rawls has epitomized theultimate song stylist. His television and movie credits include being the singing voice of Garfield, one of the Rugrats in the film \"Rugrats: The Movie\" and numerous cameo appearances on such shows as \"Norm,\" \"Baywatch Nights\" and \"Martin.\" Rawls is currently touring to support his latest release, \"Rawls Sings Sinatra.\" Tickets, priced at about 30, are available by calling Dimitriou's Jazz Alley at (206) 441-9729. Roar in Core Labor Day weekend COEUR D'ALENE, IDAHO - Motorcycle enthusiasts and rock-n-roll fans need to pencil in Labor Day weekend on their calendars. \"The Roar in Core\" will be held Sept. 3-6 at the Kootenai County Fairgrounds in Coeur d'Alene, Idaho. The event will entail all aspects of the cycling lifestyle, including bike displays from all over the Pacific Northwest and Canada, interactive exhibits, vendors row, tattoo artists, custom bikes, poker runs and charity rides. Organizers also promise top notch musical entertainment for rock-n-roll fans. Saturday, Sept. 4, on stage will be Shades of Purple, Jude Bowerman and The Fabulous Thunderbirds. Sunday, Sept. 5, No Quarter and Peter Frampton will entertain what is sure to be a capacity crowd. The four-day event also offers on-site camping, a saloon and NASCAR simulators. The Roar in Core will be held the same weekend as Coeur d'Alene's Balloon Fest. Tickets for The Roar in Core are available at any Tickets West location. Fun in the Sun figure skating championshipson for June 18-19 KENNEWICK - The Tri-Cities Figure Skating Club is hosting its annual \"Fun in the Sun\" figure skating championships Saturday, June 19. This year's event brings together two competitions in one an endorsed Ice Skating Institute recreational competition and a sanctioned U.S. Figure Skating competitive event. Nearly 100 skaters are expected to take part. The Tri-Cities Figure Skating Club invites the public to come and enjoy watching the Olympic hopefuls compete. Admission to all events is free of charge. Saturday's performances at the Tri-Cities Coliseum rink B will be from 10:30 a.m. to 3:30 p.m"}
{"Id":"1101163198604","Title":"Alderwood's Promise works with parents to ensure success","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"6/18/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"When the school year started last fall there were 566 first grade students filling up elementary school classrooms throughout the district. However, when the class of 2004 walked down the aisle for commencement services just a couple of weeks ago, only 301 students graduated from high school. These are the numbers Alderwood's Promise is hoping to avoid for the class of 2012, which is why the organization is adopting the more than 400 students who will be moving into the fifth grade next year. Thursday evening, Alderwood's Promise held an informational meeting for parents of the students of the class of 2012. The meeting served as a time for committee members to learn what the parents are looking for in regards to ensuring their children graduate from high school, as well as concerns they have for their children. Ted Mana with Alderwood's Promise explained that there are issues to be concerned about, sharing statistics that show when compared to state averages local students in grades six, eight, 10 and 12 are above average when it comes to lifetime alcohol consumption and illegal drug use. \"If this is not acceptable to you, then what we're asking is that you get involved,\" Mana told parents last night. He added that Alderwood's Promise wants to find out what parents are doing at home to make a difference. Mana said the organization also wants to talk to parents to learn what they can do together as a group to help ensure success for the students of the class of 2012. Mana said in adopting the class of 2012, Alderwood's Promise wants to work with parents to find out what leads to dropouts and low grades. He said the organization also wants to ensure that parent and student needs are being met, noting that Alderwood's Promise will work to connect families with any services they may need to succeed. He said if a child is at home alone after school, the organization might be able to get the child involved in groups like scouting and Camp Fire. Mana explained that adopting the class of 2012 also means that Alderwood's Promise will continue to hold informational meetings for parents over the years between now and graduation. Following Mana's presentation, members of Alderwood's Promise spent time talking to parents about concerns they have regarding their child. Lisa Fairbairn, administrative assistant for Alderwood's Promise, said parents listed a variety of concerns from who their child is hanging out with to the use of alcohol and drugs. One common theme that linked the different conversations, was that all of the parents hope to see their children graduate with their class"}
{"Id":"1101163198838","Title":"Familiar face taking over Mabton girls program","Author":"John Panni","Time":"6/18/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"MABTON - Mabton native Mike Roettger is coming home. Roettger, 27, was hired as the new coach of the Mabton High School girls basketball team, replacing Brett Simpson, who is leaving after five seasons. \"Brett did a heck of a job,\" said Roettger. Roettger is no stranger to the hardwood at Mabton High School. Roettger comes from an athletic family. His brother, Rob, who is the Mabton High School track and field coach IS well-known for his basketball skills in Mabton, having scored his 1,000th point his junior season. But Roettger, a 1995 graduate of Mabton High School, is no slouch himself. He is considered one of the best players to ever touch a ball in Mabton, getting a berth to the all-state game his senior year. Prior to accepting the Mabton girls coaching job, Roettger oversaw the Granger High School junior varsity boys basketball program. The Spartans' junior squad went 33-7 under Roettger the last two years and 47-13 during his three-year tenure. Roettger learned the art of coaching from one of the best coaches the Yakima Valley has ever seen, Andy Affholter. Roettger played what he terms as four memorable years for the Lower Valley coaching legend. \"I still call him,\" said Roettger. \"I am not afraid to admit I don't know everything.\" The part that Roettger remembers about playing for Affholter was that the game was simple. \"Things were basic,\" said Roettger. \"He never really got on us. He was positive.\" Roettger said Affholter's emphasis was executing the fundamentals of the sport. One part of playing under Affholter that Roettger fondly remembers is the coach's desire to do his best and have his players leave all they could on the floor. \"Andy had the will to win,\" said Roettger. \"And he was going to instill that in everyone.\" Roettger said he is hoping to implement that same philosophy with his Lady Vikings this season. Even though he is the new coach of the Mabton girls basketball team, Roettger won't be completely in the dark. His older brother is the middle school boys and girls coach, so Roettger is hoping to gain a lot of insight into players coming through the system. Roettger will also have his wife, Angel, to fall back on. His wife is a teacher at Artz-Fox Elementary School in Mabton. The couple has two children, Naya, 3, and Kaitlyn, 1. Making the transition from coaching boys basketball to girls hoops won't be that difficult, said Roettger. \"I think it is going to be fun,\" he said. \"Basketball is basketball. It is going to be a fairly smooth transition.\" Roettger is very excited about coming back to Mabton and leading the girls basketball program. \"This is home,\" said Roettger. \"The opportunity to come home is just unbelievable.\" Roettger hit the road running with the Lady Vikings. The team is busy with its summer season. \"I have got to learn the kids,\" said Roettger. \"I want to get a feel for the kids and I want them to get a feel for me.\" So far, Roettger has been impressed with the work ethic of his players. \"There is some talent there,\" said Roettger. \"I am walking into a system that is on the rise.\" Roettger has some simple goals for this season. He wants to get enough players out to field three teams. And he also feels the Lady Vikings can make the District tournament this season, it is just a matter of upsetting one of the top three teams in the Greater Columbia 'B' League's northern division-Alderwood Christian, Riverside Christian or LaSalle. Roettger is also planning to put a lot more emphasis on offense this season. He wants his players to be able to play at a quickened pace to throw others teams off guard. As far as his coaching philosophy, Roettger said the most important aspect is for students to maintain high academic standards. \"If a kid can't pass a class, they are not going to be out there,\" said Roettger. Roettger also wants to imprint on his players the need to play as a unit. Roettger encourages any players who are interested in turning out or want to talk to him more about the team to call him at 830-4647. Coming back home is something Roettger is happy to be doing. \"No matter what a coach tells you, they always want to come back home,\" smiled Roettger. \"\"I want to give back what I got out of the school and the community"}
{"Id":"1101163199525","Title":"State Grange leader tackles myriad of issues during convention address","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"6/17/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"PULLMAN - Ongoing needs of residents living in our state's rural areas and small towns, as well as issues surrounding the primary election situation, occupied much of State President Terry Hunt's report given to delegates attending the 115th annual convention of the Washington State Grange in Pullman this morning (Thursday). Hunt spoke about problems in rural areas ranging from the impact of environmental regulations on rural Washington to education policy and technology in these communities. Much of the address was focused on the Grange's efforts to shape public policy and represent the interests of all of Washington's citizens. Hunt's message was that of inclusion, while emphasizing the need to retain the Grange's rich heritage. The Grange leader disapproved of \"one size fits all\" approaches to rural America's problems. The best way to approach local problems, he stressed, is to focus on local solutions. \"Overbearing state and federal agencies imposing costly regulations often restrict the growth of our communities,\" Hunt said. \"Local communities can best decide how to develop, constrain or use their resources for the benefit of rural economies.\" The state's role, Hunt explained, is to help where it can without hindering where it is unnecessary. More local control will also lead to more civic involvement and higher participation in the democratic process, Hunt predicted. Hunt touched on several bills affecting the agricultural community which were addressed during the 2004 legislative session. Among these was a bill (HB 1677) which would have exempted farmers in Snohomish, King, Pierce, Thurston, Kitsap, Clark and Spokane counties from certain county personal property taxes on agricultural machinery used in agricultural activities. \"This would have been a big win for many of our Grangers in these counties,\" said Hunt. However, he added, the bill was vetoed by the governor. Hunt said another issue addressed was that of cougar population control. Substitute Senate Bill 6118 allowed citizens more flexibility in the steps taken to control the cougar population, specifically including the use of hunting hound dogs. The bill was passed into law. Hunt also referred to the declaration and creation of the Washington State Apple Commission in Substitute House Bill 2367 as \"a positive compromise.\" The bill provided for greater representation of growers in Washington State, and the Governor passed the bill, he said. Hunt outlined for the delegates the features of two bills concerning water that were introduced in the most recent session of the Legislature. The first was the instream flow bill (SHB 2396), which \"created an overly burdensome system with unrealistic timeframes to set instream flows,\" Hunt said. \"We're please that the bill never made it into law.\" The other piece of water legislation Hunt addressed focused on the issue of relinquishment. The basic premise of the complicated Senate Bill 6734 was to repeal relinquishment and move to a system of abandonment where a water right holder wouldn't lose his/her water unless he/she intends to not use it. \"The water right holder would have been able to choose to use or not use the water without fear of losing his/her water,\" said Hunt. \"Unfortunately, the bill was never passed. \"Our water laws have been in a state of contention for as long as Washington has been a state,\" continued Hunt. \"Water is the life-blood of everything we do. We cannot live without water, and the regulations need to be monitored. When they are excessive and abusive to the livelihood of our rural communities, they need to be fixed. It's about creating balance for the state: a balance for people and the environment-one can't survive without the other.\" Hunt also expressed pride in having the opportunity to be a member of the Washington State Biodiversity Initiative Committee. \"Through our involvement with this entity, we are able to ensure that the interests of farmers and ranchers are taken into consideration when environmental policy initiatives are being developed,\" Hunt said. \"This allows us to make sure that environmental regulations are carefully planned out and do not have adverse unintended consequences for rural communities.\" Grange members are very much involved with their local schools, Hunt noted, and Granges are making a real difference in the education of our children. The Grange is actively supporting the Ag in the Classroom program that provides instructional material to elementary students. These materials help the students understand our agricultural system - making them more aware of how food gets to their table. The Grange is also working closely with the older students through FFA and 4-H. Locally, many Granges are donating dictionaries to third grade students in the \"Words for Thirds\" project, he said. \"A tremendous amount of work is being done all around the state with Granges participating in the Dictionary Project,\" said Hunt. \"This project continues to be a great success, giving thousands of dictionaries to third-graders across the state. Many Grangers continue to contribute to volunteer services, books and supplies to their local schools. We have helped schools for centuries as a volunteer organization, and now we're becoming even more involved in the education process. I am pleased to see the devotion you continue to give to our children,\" he told those in attendance. Hunt also noted that the Grange was actively involved with education policy during this year's legislative session. The Grange supported a bill allowing for new charter schools, as well as a bill allowing school districts to collect more of the local property tax money authorized by local voters. Hunt closed his lengthy report by pointing to two impressive accomplishments by the Grange over the past year. The Grange's Technology Project currently has 14 Granges participating and more are in the wings. The project has established these sites in rural areas where community members can go to access high-speed Internet. The project is funded in part by a generous grant from the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation. \"The Grange will continue to seek projects that help rural communities realize the benefits of high-speed Internet access and modern computer technologies,\" Hunt said. \"We are working toward a day when the sites can interact with each other and with other locations using video conferencing software. This will bring new educational opportunities to those sites and allow rural residents to share in the activities of other communities around the world.\" The second recent accomplishment Hunt mentioned was the organization's ongoing fight to preserve the rights of Washington's voters. Following the Grange's decisive victory in federal district court in 2002 to preserve the blanket primary, the political parties chose to appeal the ruling. \"The political parties seemed intent on controlling the entire process,\" Hunt said. The Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals heard the parties' appeal of the federal district court's decision in February, 2003. The Grange and the State presented a vigorous defense of the blanket primary, led by Grange attorney James Johnson. Unfortunately, the Ninth Circuit Court ruled the blanket primary unconstitutional last September, and the Grange filed an appeal to the United States Supreme Court, said Hunt. In March of this year, the Grange received word that the highest court in the land would not review its Sing. The Grange was then forced to develop an alternative primary system which would satisfy the constitutional requirements set forth by the courts. However, the Grange continued to be committed to preserving the fundamental voting rights of the people in this state, and any new system that was developed would have to conform to the will of the people, he said. The Democratic, Republican and Libertarian parties were able to overturn Washington's blanket primary system, which allowed all people to vote in primaries regardless of party affiliation. Voters previously were not required to register by political party in Washington State. The Grange led the initiative drive to create that system in 1935.The Grange began advocating, during the 2004 legislative session, for a constitutional top-two qualifying primary. This system, to voters, would look almost identical to the old blanket primary. Voters would still be able to vote for any candidate in any office without regard to party affiliation, and the two top vote-getters would advance to the general election. Hunt said the Grange was hopeful that the Legislature would adopt such a system, but \"...we also filed a proposed initiative to the people in the event that political parties were able to persuade the Legislature to act in a manner that wasn't consistent with what the people wanted,\" he said. The Legislature passed a plan - in Engrossed Senate Bill 6453 - to enact a qualifying primary, (according to the restrictive title of the bill). However, the bill also contained a provision in it stating that if certain political party lawsuits were successful, the state would revert to an open - or \"Montana-style\" - primary system. Gov. Locke vetoed the \"top-two\" system out of the bill, leaving only the Montana-style system in its place. Under this system, voters are required to choose a ballot from only one party at a primary election - in effect, forcing citizens to vote a straight party ticket. \"Changing our primary in this manner will have long-term consequences,\" said Hunt. \"California and Alaska experienced massive drops in voter turnout following the change from a blanket primary to a closed system. California had its lowest primary turnout percentage ever in 2000 following the change in their primary. In an era when we are asking government to be more accountable, we need more voters, not less, to participate in the democratic process. \"This is why we are running I-872, the \"People's Choice\" initiative,\" Hunt continued. \"We believe it is imperative that the people have the final say in what type of primary system we adopt. We began collecting signatures in April, and we have until the end of this month to collect more than 250,000 signatures in order to ensure that I-872 will have a place on the November ballot. This initiative, if passed by the people of Washington State, will institute the same type of top-two system that the Legislature intended. The Governor defied the will of the voters, and he defied the will of the legislators elected to represent those voters. And now we're going to take back control over our primary election process. \"I don't think we have seen a more exciting and influential period in the history of the Grange since the 1930s,\" Hunt said. \"We are again seeing the fruits of our labor and what a true grass-roots movement can accomplish. We see that we, the people, really do have a say in what happens to us. Our lives are not dictated by the agendas of political parties or by the incompetence of government bureaucracy. Our lives are uniquely ours; they belong to us.\" In closing, Hunt left the delegates with a vision for the Grange's ongoing work to improve the quality of life for all of Washington's citizens, especially those in rural regions of the state. But the message also emphasized the need for inclusion. \"The importance of rural America to the fabric of our society cannot be overstated, but we need to recognize that as rural communities continue to develop and change, the lines blur between what is rural and what is urban,\" he said. \"As a result, the Grange needs to be able to adapt to these changing times, without losing the important characteristics that comprise its rich heritage. \"In the coming years, it will be extremely important for the Grange to not only represent rural interests, but the interests of a diverse range of communities,\" continued Hunt. \"We need to be an inclusive organization which will not only strengthen the strong foundation of community life that already exists in many rural areas, but which will also plant the seeds for a vibrant sense of community in some of the more urban areas that have become fragmented over the years. We can provide a vehicle for these urban communities to regain some of what has been lost in the hustle and bustle of everyday city life. People long for a sense of belonging - for the need to be a part of something that is greater than the individual. \"This is why our vision for the Grange needs to focus on the issues that we can all agree on,\" he continued. \"The Grange is not just about representing the people in rural communities. We must represent the vast majority of the people in this great state of ours, just as we have done with the blanket primary issue. We must build our role as a group of equals that share a common concern for family, community and the land. And we must do so regardless of age. We can appeal to a diverse range of people without losing the essential heritage that brought us to this point in history. We must show that we are more than great halls. Each community Grange can act as a source of strength when pursuing good legislative policy, a source of fun when families and others want a safe place to congregate, and a source of support for citizens who want the same access to technology and services. \"The values of community involvement, compassion for those in need, strong families, and liberty do not end at the edges of our metropolitan areas,\" Hunt concluded. \"Whether a person lives in downtown Seattle or outside of Colfax, they deserve the chance to be part of a great organization in the Grange. Our vision should encompass all of Washington's citizens, because therein lies the heart of the Grange. Our core values live in our people, the Grangers who care about their communities and the rights of the people who live there"}
{"Id":"1101163199760","Title":"No action taken in executive session","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"6/16/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"No action was taken by the Alderwood School Board yesterday following an hour-long executive session. The school board met in the administration office on South Sixth Street at noon yesterday to conduct a student discipline hearing and evaluate the qualifications of an applicant for employment"}
{"Id":"1101163214197","Title":"Police nab six teens at busted party","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"6/15/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"Six teens were cited for minor in possession and/or consumption of alcohol early Sunday morning when a large party was busted in the 100 block of NW Crescent Avenue. According to Alderwood Police Department Capt. Bill Bank, officers were called to a loud teen party just after 2 a.m. Sunday morning. \"When officers arrived kids were running everywhere,\" said Bank. Officers were able to catch six of the party-goers. An 18-year-old was arrested and charged with minor in possession and/or consumption of alcohol. He was one of the youths police arrested just before this year's Alderwood High School graduation. At the time, nine students, were apprehended by police on various charges, including trespassing on school property, possessing and consuming alcohol, and drug possession. The school district chose to allow the teens caught at that time to walk in graduation, pending good behavior the rest of the school year. Also cited early this past Sunday morning were five minors under the age of 18, according to Bank. They will be facing charges of minor in possession and/or consumption in juvenile court. Three of the young men cited are 17 years old. A 16-year-old male and female were also cited. Bank said, at this time, it appears that none of the teens arrested and cited actually lived at the address. He said the department will be looking into who hosted the party. \"We've been aggressively targeting teen drinking parties. When we hear of them we do our best to arrest as many as possible,\" Bank added"}
{"Id":"1101163214479","Title":"400 Alderwood fifth graders to be adopted this fall","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"6/15/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"Students' parents asked to attend June 17 meeting Adoption proceedings are in the works for approximately 400 Alderwood youngsters who will be in the fifth grade at Chief Kamiakin Elementary School this fall. No, the parents of these 400 or so youths aren't farming their sons and daughters out to new families. Rather, it will be more of a \"joint custody\" type arrangement. The Alderwood's Promise group has decided to \"adopt\" the 10 and 11-year-olds to ensure they all are given access to the organization's five promises. Those promises are intended to help reduce risk factors and support the youngsters as they work toward graduating from high school. The parents of all the kids who will be fifth graders at Chief Kamiakin this fall are being asked to attend a meeting this Thursday, June 17, to help address what needs to be done to keep their children in school and prospering. The open house meeting will be held from 7 to 8:30 p.m. at the Alderwood Community Center, at South Hill Park. The administrative assistant of Alderwood's Promise, Lisa Fairbairn, said child care services will be provided that evening. Free food and prizes are also being offered to those who attend. Alderwood's Promise is a grassroots coalition of individuals, business people, educators and representatives of social service and faith-based organizations. The group has adopted an initiative to bring the five promises to Alderwood's young people. Fairbairn said the goal is to remedy the high dropout rate and disturbing trends toward tobacco, alcohol and drug use. \"It's a fact,\" said Fairbairn, \"that 25 percent of our students in Alderwood will not graduate from high school.\" That means of the 400 or so youths who will be sitting in fifth grade classrooms at Chief Kamiakin Elementary School this fall, 100 of them will not finish school before graduating. Fairbairn said the Alderwood's Promise group is committed to working with parents to change that statistic. Part of the problem, said Fairbairn, is that the rate of alcohol, tobacco and drug use in this area of the state is higher than in other regions. She said at the urging of Alderwood Police Chief Ted Mana, who chairs Alderwood's Promise, the group will adopt the 400 or so fifth graders. Plans are to work intensively with the youngsters throughout their next eight years of school to give them every chance to graduate with the AHS class of 2012. Fairbairn pointed out that based on surveys and research, it has been determined that the fifth grade is the best time to implement positive youth development strategies. She said every year the class of 2012 will receive special age-appropriate prevention and educational services. The Alderwood group is asking that the parents of these youngsters become part of the solution, and attend Thursday's meeting to help develop strategies that will ensure all 400 fifth graders graduate from high school"}
{"Id":"1101163215025","Title":"Briefs","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"6/11/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"1-Column Helicopter pilot uninjured in crash PROSSER - 56-year-old George P. LeLoup avoided injury when his helicopter crashed in a cherry orchard near Prosser this past Tuesday evening. According to Benton County Sheriff's Captain Charles Kissler, LeLoup was drying a cherry crop with his helicopter near North Hinzerling and McReadie roads at about 6:40 p.m. Tuesday. Kissler said the helicopter's rotor struck a power line. \"The pilot was able to land the craft in the orchard,\" said Kissler. The power line that the helicopter's rotor struck was knocked down, though. Several trees and the helicopter, itself, were also heavily damaged. Kissler said the FAA has been contacted and the federal agency will be conducting a formal investigation. The helicopter piloted by the British Columbia man is owned by Eric Monson of Selah. Dobson volunteers for Girls Nation event in D.C. Andy Dobson of Alderwood will serve as a volunteer during the 58th annual session of Girls Nation in Washington, D.C. the week of July 24-31. Girls Nation is a hands-on government education program that brings together some of the top female high school seniors in America. A total of 96 girls from 48 states participate in the week-long citizenship program. Dobson will be part of the government staff at Girls Nation. The American Legion Auxiliary traditionally sponsors the Girls Nation event. Rail painting party set for June 19 Alderwood residents are being invited to leave their mark on the community two Saturdays from now, June 19. Behind the efforts of Carol Stone, a rail painting party will be held that day. Stone said all community residents are urged to take part in the beautification effort. Stone explained that in an effort to continue adding color and beauty to the city, the guardrail near the railroad tracks at Central Park will be painted with handprints of all the participants. Local citizens, young and old alike, are asked to take part. The June 19 event is set for 9 to 11 a.m. Tickets available for annual Hospice benefit auction Tickets are on sale for the annual Lower Valley Hospice benefit auction, which is scheduled to take place Saturday, Oct. 9, at Navarro's Community Center, 548 S. Sixth St. in Alderwood. The \"Circle of Life\"-themed event will begin at 6 p.m. with a silent auction. The live auction will begin at 8 p.m. and doors will close at 10 p.m. Heavy hors d'oeuvres will be served and those in attendance will have a chance to bid on items ranging from different wine packages to a play/dollhouse being built by the Boys Scouts of America. Tickets for the auction are 25 per person or 40 per couple, and are available through Lower Valley Hospice. For more information call 837-1676"}
{"Id":"1101163215291","Title":"New Grizzly newspaper advisor lands scholarship to attend workshop","Author":"John Panni","Time":"6/11/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"Alderwood High School teacher Elizabeth Wiederspohn will be taking part in a two-week journalism education workshop in San Francisco to learn all she can for her new role. Wiederspohn will be taking over the role of advisor for \"The Grizzly,\" the school newspaper at Alderwood High School. As part of the training for her new position, Wiederspohn applied for and received a scholarship through the American Society of Newspaper Editors (ASNE) to attend a two-week workshop in San Francisco starting this Sunday. \"I think it will be a lot of fun,\" said Wiederspohn. \"I think it will be a neat opportunity.\" Wiederspohn is one of 35 teachers from across the country to be selected to attend the San Francisco workshop. This workshop will mark the first endeavor into the world of journalism for Wiederspohn, who teaches a variety of business-related classes at the high school, including computers and accounting. Wiederspohn became the new journalism advisor, which is a regular daily class offered at the high school, after the school newspaper came under a different department. Wiederspohn said the newspaper used to be overseen by the high school English department, but because that department is heading in a different direction, the newspaper now falls under her department. While she has never taken a journalism class or done anything in the newspaper business, Wiederspohn is going into the workshop with the mind of a sponge, hoping to soak up all she can. \"I really want the experience,\" said Wiederspohn. \"I want the newspaper career to be real to my students.\" Wiederspohn is also hoping that she can bring back what she learned at the workshop and relay that information to her students. Her goal for the newspaper is to have it become a publication that the students at the high school take ownership in. Wiederspohn will have 26 students in next year's newspaper class and she is hoping each of them bring a unique sense of what the school is like to the newspaper. \"I want to give the paper a new look,\" she said. \"(I want the newspaper to have) more of students' reflections on what they believe.\" As part of her application process to attend the all-expense paid workshop, Wiederspohn had to include a biography and write an essay on the need for journalism with students. The San Francisco workshop will cover a variety of areas, including journalism ethics, different publishing styles, photoshop and editing. There will be hardly any time to rest for Wiederspohn. The workshops will run daily from 8 a.m. to 9 p.m. The workshop will feature newspaper editors from across the country, including heads of the San Jose Mercury News, The Oregonian and the Houston Chronicle. Pulitzer Prize winning photojournalist Kim Mimenich will also be on hand. \"They have so much going on,\" said Wiederspohn. \"I am hoping I can bring it all back"}
{"Id":"1101163215525","Title":"Four teens vying for Miss Mabton title","Author":"Bob Story","Time":"6/11/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"MABTON - Reigning Miss Mabton Sophia Beltran will relinquish her crown tonight to one of four young ladies vying for her title. The 2004 Miss Mabton Pageant will be held Friday evening at Artz-Fox Elementary School. The doors will be opened to the public at 6:30 p.m., with pageant festivities scheduled to begin half an hour later. One thing that makes tonight's pageant special is that none of the teens vying for the Miss Mabton title will go away empty-handed. Pageant coordinator Rachel Ruelas said all four young ladies competing for Beltran's crown will represent Mabton in the coming year. \"One will be chosen Miss Mabton,\" said Ruelas. \"The other three will be either first princess, second princess or third princess.\" Tonight's contestants will include 17-year-old Marissa Angelique Gonzalez, and 16-year-olds Mayra Miranda Gutierrez, Adriana Maribel Cardenas and Erica Lee Sanchez. Gonzalez, born in Prosser, is a sophomore at Mabton Jr./Sr. High School, as are the other three contestants. The daughter of Iris and Pedro Lara, she now resides in Mabton with her grandmother, Noemi Gonzalez. With aspirations of some day traveling the world, Gonzalez said she intends on pursuing a career as a flight attendant. In the present, though, Gonzalez has been active in Mabton's FFA chapter. She also spent time at school serving as the manager of the boys basketball team. Gonzalez lists her hobbies as reading, walking and listening to music. In her spare time, she tends to the needs of her younger cousins. The 16-year-old Gutierrez likes many of the same things teens her age enjoy doing in their \"down\" time. Dancing is one of the top things on her hobby list, as are watching movies, talking on the phone with her friends and just \"hanging out\" with her peers. Her parents are Cristobal Gutierrez and Alida Miranda. Cardenas, 16, perhaps is the busiest of this year's Miss Mabton contestants. Not only has she been active playing volleyball, basketball and softball for the Lady Vikings, Cardenas is a member of her school's 3-Sports Athletic Club. In addition, she has just wrapped up serving as vice president of the Mabton sophomore class, and was active in choir and the leadership club this past year. The daughter of Yadira Escoto and Celso Cardenas, she lists her hobbies as listening to music, singing and \"...playing basketball at the green courts.\" Cardenas' future plans include attending beauty school during her junior and senior years of high school. \"So that by 2006 I can graduate from beauty school and high school,\" she said. Following that, Cardenas said she'd like to attend Columbia Basin Community College to study dental hygenistry. Cosmetology appears to be in the future plans of the 16-year-old Sanchez, who right now is leaning towards a career in that field. The daughter of Ricardo and Rachel Sanchez, she, like Cardenas, has been very active at Mabton Jr./Sr. High School. Sanchez is an Honor Society member, and for the past two years has served on Mabton's townhall meeting committee. Sanchez, too, has played on the high school's volleyball and basketball teams, as well as being a member of her school's drill team. In her spare time, Sanchez enjoys listening to tejano music, watching movies, reading, playing summer basketball and visiting with her friends. Tonight's Miss Mabton Pageant kicks off Community Days in Mabton. Admission is 3 for adults, 2 for students and 1 for pre-schoolers. A parade is scheduled for 11 a.m. through the downtown Mabton streets Saturday morning, with food and game vendors set up at the city park both Saturday and Sunday"}
{"Id":"1101163215807","Title":"Sports Briefs","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"6/11/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"1-Column 6-11 Sports briefs Summer Jam returns to S side The second annual Alderwood Summer Jam will be held at the Mid-Valley Mall the weekend of July 10-11. The 3-on-3 basketball tournament offers numerous divisions of play for youngsters and adults, alike. Registration fees are set at 60 for youth teams and 70 for adult teams. All sign-ups are being handled by the Alderwood Chamber of Commerce (837-5939). Tourney organizers report that team packets and t-shirts will be distributed during check-in, at 8 a.m. on Saturday. Each team is guaranteed to play a minimum of three games in the round-robin format. Nozaka, Stotz, Hector, Andrews, Bowlsby grabfirst place finishes RICHLAND - Black Rock Creek's golfers found Columbia Point Golf Course to their liking this past Monday. Competing at a PGA Central Washington chapter pro-am series event, five of Black Rock Creek's members scored a first place finish Monday. The winners included Souta Nozaka, Chad Stotz, Kelly Hector, Scott Andrews and Geoff Bowlsby. Nozaka won top honors among all the amateurs, carding a tourney best five-under 67. Stotz finished in an eight-way tie for low net honors among amateur division #1 golfers by shooting a handicap-aided 66. Hector was one of three golfers to tie for low net honors among amateur division #2 golfers with a 66. Andrews and Bowlsby shared amateur division #3 low net honors with six others, all posting 66's. The low professional round of the day was turned in by Von Wells of Desert Canyon Resort. Wells posted an eight-under 64. S side Boosters stage tournament Two squads tied for top honors this past weekend in the second annual Alderwood High School Boosters Club Golf Tournament, staged at Black Rock Creek Golf Course. The two four-person teams carded 13-under 59's playing a scramble format. The winning teams were comprised of Gary Rohde, Larry O'Brian, Russ Phillips and Brad Shreeve; and Zach Wanderscheid, Tim Taylor, Juston Bos and Andrew Swinehart. Placing third with a 61 was the foursome of Lance Den Boer, Bob Van de Graff, Tim Stewart and Duane Schutt. In the handicap-aided net division, the foursome of Dana Carr, Candice Flores, Chet Terrell and Tom Monroe placed first with a 51.75. Second place net finishers, with a 52.75, were Jason Ross, Jeff Ross, Penny Ross and Tayana Rogers. The third place net team, with a 53.60, was made up of Rae Ann Goin, Mike Cantwell, Ken Goin and Kari Hunt. Swim lessonsstart next Monday Monday, June 14, swim lessons get underway at the Alderwood municipal pool. Local parks and rec officials report that Alderwood residents can register for the lessons during regular pool hours. Lessons are being offered Mondays through Fridays, half an hour at a time, during each two-week session. The cost is 20 for in-city residents and 26 for those residing outside the city limits. Soapbox derby practice run setto be held June 26 All those racers planning to compete in the sixth annual Alderwood Soapbox Derby are invited to test out their cars on Saturday, June 26. The practice run at the hill next to Central Park will begin at 11 a.m. The derby, itself, will be held during Alderwood's annual Fourth of July celebration, on Saturday, July 3. Three divisions of competition are offered: youths 7 to 14 years of age, adults and the Mayor's Challenge Cup for all city and county officials. Registration fees range from 10 to 25. Registration forms are still available a the Alderwood parks and rec office. The deadline to sign up to compete is Monday, June 21. Volleyball camp open to girls The Alderwood Parks and Recreation Department will sponsor a volleyball camp for girls on July 12, 14 and 16 at the Alderwood High School gym. The three-day summer camp is open to girls in the 7th through 12th grades. Seventh and eighth grade girls will attend from 9 to 10:30 a.m. each of the three days, learning basic skills development in passing, serving, hitting and stragegies. Girls in 9th through 12th grades can register for the hitters camp (10:30 a.m. to noon) or for the setter/defense camp (12:30 to 2 p.m.). Sign-ups are being conducted at the local parks and rec office. Camp fees are set at 25. For high school aged girls who want to attend both sessions, the fee is 35. All girls who attend will receive a camp t-shirt. This year's camp will be directed by Alderwood High School varsity volleyball coach Angel Whalen. Grade school boys invited to hoop camp June 15-16 Alderwood High School varsity boys basketball coach Steve Urrutia will be the director of the annual Alderwood Parks and Recreation Department summer basketball camp for grade school boys. This year's camp will be held June 15-16, from 1 to 3 p.m. both days. The camp is open to boys who will be in the first through sixth grades this fall. Sign-ups are underway at the local parks and rec office. The 20 registration fee includes the cost of a camp t-shirt. Summer hoop camp for girlsset for June 15-16 The Alderwood Parks and Recreation Girls Summer Classic Basketball Camp will be held next Tuesday and Wednesday, June 15-16. Alderwood High School varsity girls basketball coach Leo Gomez will serve as camp director. The 9 a.m. to noon camp is open to girls in the first through sixth grades. Girls can register at the local parks and rec office, at a cost of 20, which includes the price of a camp t-shirt. Golf Fore Life tourney June 19 The Lower Valley Pregnancy Center will host its Golf Fore Life Tournament Saturday, June 19, at Alderwood's Black Rock Creek Golf Course. Participants are invited to set a goal of golfing 100 holes that day. Last year's event drew 27 golfers to Black Rock Creek for an early morning breakfast and a long day of golf. They helped raise more than 20,000 through pledges they obtained from family and friends. Sign-up information on the tourney is available by calling Jan McDonald at 882-1899"}
{"Id":"1101163216322","Title":"Bears GM visits Alderwood to recruit fans to Yakima games","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"6/10/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"A good old-fashioned game of baseball, 25 cent hotdogs and fireworks are images that spring to mind when a person begins to think of things that are traditionally American. And June 21, during the Yakima Bears home opener, these are things that everyone in attendance will have a chance to be a part of. Bob Romero, general manager of the Yakima Bears, told members of the Alderwood Daybreak Rotary Club Wednesday morning about some of the promotional things the organization does during the season, including fireworks at their home opener and crazy games between innings. Romero said their goal is to get those people who regularly attend one game during the season to attend two, and those who normally go to three or four games to go to five or six during the season. Romero noted that Yakima is the smallest market in the league, playing against teams from places as large as Vancouver, which has an audience of a million people to draw from. \"It's a night and day difference,\" Romero said of the amount of people between Vancouver and Yakima. Despite being a small market, the Yakima team, which is an affiliate of the Arizona Diamondbacks, obtains some quality players. Romero said this year the team is expecting to get 15 to 16 players coming up from extended spring training in Tucson. \"We expect to see a lot of those college guys,\" Romero said. \"We should be a good team and it should be a fun summer.\" Romero said for many of the players, being a Yakima Bear this summer will be their first time playing professional baseball. He said it takes them some time to get used to the daily grind, playing 76 games in 80 days. \"This is their job,\" Romero said. He said another challenge for the players is the fact that the Bears play in a tough league. \"A lot of them will come here and deal with failure for the first time,\" Romero said. He added that of the 30 players that make up the team, on average two or three of them will eventually end up playing in the major leagues. Romero said there are currently 14 or 15 former Bears playing in the major leagues. \"It's the spring board where they kind of launch their careers,\" Romero said. Although it is merely entertainment for the fans, the Yakima Bears organization is also a business. Romero said the organization is an independent business affiliated with the Diamondbacks. One of the challenges that comes with operating a business like the baseball team, is that it only has 38 days a year to attract customers. He said it's a discretionary business, explaining that coming to a baseball game is not something people need to do. He said there are also other challenges that come into play, like weather and the players the team gets. The players are chosen by the Diamondbacks organization. Teddi Fowler, director of ticket and group sales, told Rotarians that there a lot of different ticket options for those who are interested in attending Bears games this season. She said one of those options is to purchase a book of 10 general admission tickets for 32. She said the tickets can then be used for any of the games. Fowler said another popular option is a book of undated vouchers for reserved seats at the stadium. She said the vouchers can then be used at any game during the season and more than one voucher can be used per game. Romero added that keeping ticket prices affordable is important to the organization. \"I believe the important thing about minor league baseball is keeping it affordable for people,\" he said"}
{"Id":"1101163216557","Title":"Grandview City Council Briefs","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"6/9/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"1-Column Speed limits changed near distribution center GRANDVIEW - Monday night, Grandview City Council members voted to increase the speed limit around the Wal-Mart distribution center from 25 miles per hour to 35 miles per hour. The speed limit increase will take effect on Woodall Road from East Stover Road north to the city limits, on Bethany Road from the curve north to the city limits, and on East Stover Road from Wine Country Road east to the city limits. Council takes first step in annexation request GRANDVIEW - Monday night, Grandview City Council members accepted a letter of intent for annexation from Robert and Jacqueline Young. The annexation proposal includes just over 18 acres along Stover Road. The parcel being proposed for annexation is designated for residential use in the city's urban growth area future land use designations, and the Young's are asking that it be annexed with an R-3 multi-family residential zone. After being approved by council the annexation proposal will be sent to the Planning Commission for a public hearing. Council approves amendment to recent annexation proposal GRANDVIEW - In April, Grandview City Council members voted to approve an annexation proposal from Leroy and Joanna Blankenship that included 9.65 acres of property along Wilson Highway. When it was originally approved it was approved with an R-1 single family residential zone. Since then, the developer requested that the zoning be amended to an R-2 zone that would allow for the building of several duplexes, as well as single family housing. Monday night, council members approved the amendment to the zoning"}
{"Id":"1101163230979","Title":"Seneca announcement leaves state's asparagus industry on life support","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"6/9/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"This is asparagus season in the Yakima and Walla Walla river valleys. The region's rich soil and perfect growing conditions have produced another bumper crop of high-quality asparagus destined for America's dinner tables. Despite that, Washington's 100 million a year asparagus industry is in jeopardy. It may even be on its death bed. On June 3, Seneca Foods Corporation announced that, after 70 years in operation, it will close its Dayton, asparagus packing plant next year. The news followed a decision by General Mills, Seneca's largest customer, to begin importing its asparagus from Peru. Seneca Foods is the third and final asparagus canner to shut its doors in Washington in less than a year, following Del Monte in Toppenish and Chiquita in Walla Walla. In fact since 1990, Washington's asparagus farm lands have shrunk from 30,000 acres to 15,000. Another 1,700 acres are being plowed under since Del Monte Foods moved its asparagus processing line to Peru, along with 350 jobs. But the Seneca announcement is different. The company's plant in Dayton is the world's largest asparagus processing facility, employing more than 1,000 seasonal workers, 50 full-time employees, and providing growers with more than 15 million in annual revenues. In other words, Seneca is to Dayton what Boeing is to Seattle. This crisis has nothing to do with growing conditions, urban sprawl or plant diseases; it has to do with several well-intentioned federal and state policies that are combining to kill an entire industry. One of those policies is the Andean Trade Preference Act. Part of America's war on drugs, the Act was supposed to get Andean farmers to switch from growing coca leaves - the base for cocaine - to other crops, such as asparagus. As an incentive, the U.S. agreed to a zero tariff on Peruvian asparagus imports. Unfortunately, the agreement was doomed to fail because asparagus and coca are grown in two very different regions. Instead of switching from coca to asparagus, Peruvians are now growing both crops. And since the Andean agreement allows Peruvian asparagus to enter the United States without tariffs, it undercuts our crops at supermarkets. According to the General Accounting Office, this 1991 act has not stemmed coca production, but has put asparagus growers in Washington, California and Michigan at risk. Along with federal trade policy, Washington's minimum wage law is also helping to kill this labor intensive industry. Our state's growers and processors must pay 7.16 per hour - the highest starting wage in the nation, which automatically escalates each year. In Peru, workers get 5 per day. Congress and the Washington State Legislature must step in if our state's asparagus industry is to be saved. First, the Department of Commerce should impose a tariff on Peruvian asparagus. It could do so tomorrow if it wanted to. It has done just that for powerful sugar and wheat interests, but has turned a deaf ear to the pleas of asparagus growers. Our Congressional delegation should put pressure on the Commerce Department to ensure fair treatment for American asparagus growers. Secondly, lawmakers in Olympia must change our state's minimum wage law. Because our minimum wage automatically increases each year, it continually widens the gap between Washington and the rest of the world. Legislators should freeze the wage at 7.16 until the rest of the country catches up, and tie future increases to economic conditions in agriculture and other industries where labor costs are especially sensitive. Asparagus growers are not asking for special treatment, just fair treatment. But an entire industry in Washington is in danger of collapse unless elected officials in Olympia and Washington, D.C. act quickly. Don C. Brunell is President of the Association of Washington Business"}
{"Id":"1101163231244","Title":"Graduates laud efforts of PRIDE High staff","Author":"Mel Sacher","Time":"6/8/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"Five PRIDE High School graduates shared pieces of their lives with a near capacity audience at the PRIDE commencement ceremony held Monday night. Twenty-seven graduates dressed in robes of green and crimson marched into the Alderwood High School auditorium to receive their diploma, something that is a major accomplishment for many of them, according to Principal Gary Babcock. A total of 31 seniors graduated from PRIDE this spring. Babcock said each has a story of what brought them to PRIDE and each has overcome their own obstacles to make it to graduation. Some have faced family illness, death, the birth of children and taking on jobs to help with responsibilities at home, according to Babcock. Amelia Munoz was one of the five class speakers at the commencement ceremony. As a junior Munoz started taking classes at PRIDE. \"PRIDE is not some big fancy school, but it has what most students need, teachers who care,\" said Munoz. \"To me, it's more than a school, it's a second home.\" She said that while attending PRIDE she learned that she can do anything she puts her mind to and can always strive to do better. \"The staff members are the roots of this school,\" said Munoz. \"I know if it wasn't for them I would have given up long ago.\" She closed saying that for herself and her fellow classmates it was hard for most of them to reach graduation and because of that she encouraged her classmates to work harder, whether they go to college, art school or technical school, or follow a different path. Graduate Monica Pacheco said that before she started attending PRIDE she thought it was a school established for students who were always in trouble. Before attending classes at PRIDE, Pacheco said that she had never wanted to go to school, but always wanted to go skipping with her friends. When she made the decision to attend PRIDE, Pacheco said it was the best decision she ever made. \"I don't know where I would be tonight if I hadn't attended PRIDE,\" she said. Pacheco said she plans to attend Columbia Basin Community College in the fall to pursue a degree in medical science. She plans to transfer to the University of Washington to finish out her four-year degree. Pacheco has plans to study to be a pediatrician. The oldest of five boys in his family, Rafael Larios also graduated last night. He said he found that PRIDE fit into his schedule with trying to go to work and school at the same time. \"PRIDE isn't a place for failures or bad students,\" he said. \"It's a place for second chances.\" \"Today is one of the most exciting days of my life,\" said Mireya Torres, a PRIDE graduate speaking at Monday night's commencement ceremony. \"I didn't think I would ever graduate,\" she said. Torres said she faced many obstacles on her road to graduation. At age 19, she found herself the single mother of two boys with only the help of her grandparents available. \"PRIDE offered me a schedule I could work around,\" said Torres. As graduates, Torres said, it's not the end, but the beginning of a new life as adults. \"If we can make it anyone can,\" she said. \"Believe in yourself and never give up.\" Julie Reyes, the final speaker at the graduation ceremony, lost her mother shortly after she started attending PRIDE. \"When I first came to PRIDE I was a junior and pregnant with my son Elisha,\" said Reyes. \"My biggest obstacle was when my mom was diagnosed with cancer and only lived three months,\" she said. With her father absent from the home, Reyes relied on the family she found in the staff of PRIDE for support. \"They provided me with a psychologist to help me with my loss,\" she said. She encouraged her classmates to never give up. \"This is just a start. We have a long way to go,\" she added"}
{"Id":"1101163231479","Title":"Mabton High School honors spring athletes","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"6/8/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"MABTON - The staff at Mabton High School honored some of its best and brightest of the past spring sports season last Thursday night, June 3. The spring sports ceremony at Mabton was started off with a barbecue held by Project Success coordinator Lorri Brown. The barbecue was held for the student athletes and their families. The spring sports coaches then recognized some of their most talented student athletes of the past season. Lady Viking fastpitch coach Jesus Sustaita handed out awards to two of his players for the improvements they showed during the past season. Celida Diaz was named the most improved player on this year's Lady Viking squad while Diana Lopez was named the team's most valuable player. Jesica Orozco, Diana Lopez and Michelle Tellez earned all league recognitions for the Greater Columbia 'B' League this past spring season. Long-time Mabton baseball coach Kerry Snodgrass gave out the coaches award to Javier Galvan. Andrew Tellez received the most improved player honors on this year's Mabton baseball team. Galvan also earned all league honors in the Greater Columbia 'B' League. The male track and field athlete of the year was Max Ramirez. Female track and field athlete of the year honors went to Cassandra Geertsma. Both Viking athletes received the honor from their coach Rob Roettger. Webster Lopez and Geertsma also received certificates from the Washington Interscholastic Activities Association (WIAA). The two earned the honors for qualifying for the 'B' State track and field meet. Lopez earned a ninth place finish in the 3,200-meter run. Geertsma competed in the long jump at State"}
{"Id":"1101163233666","Title":"Grads bid farewell to Alderwood High School","Author":"Mel Sacher","Time":"6/7/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Leading 275 students onto the field of Clem Senn Field, 80-year-old Roy Culver was the oldest graduate to receive his diploma at the Alderwood High School commencement exercise last Friday night. Culver graduated as part of the Operation Recognition program, which allows military veterans who left school early to join World War II ranks to receive high school diplomas. As a part of the ceremony Culver not only received his diploma, but a long-awaited standing ovation from the crowd. Culver's recognition set the tone of the event, at which both Alderwood School District Superintendent Dr. Aaron Bones and class speaker, American History and CWP teacher Monty Johnson, encouraged the young graduates to be part of their communities and vote. Bones also encouraged the graduates to, no later than Saturday, sit down and think about what their goals are and to raise them. \"It's important to set your goals high because you can do it,\" said Bones. \"You are successful. Don't be afraid to fail or challenge your future.\" Johnson addressed the class saying, \"You're the sons and daughters of this community. Take pride in yourselves. We have invested in you and we have invested well.\" He said there is much that faces the graduates as they leave Alderwood and enter the world. Johnson said as Alderwood thrives and grows local residents will try to better it with our own interests in mind, to draw back some of the recent graduates. He encouraged the youths to become a part of their community, whether it be Alderwood or another town. He encouraged the youths to find a community and become a volunteer, join a service club or help a friend in need. \"Don't consider your education complete,\" he said, encouraging the young adults to be constant learners, informing themselves about what is going on in the world around them. He also encouraged the youths to participate in the country's democracy. \"Many of you are 18, or soon will be. I encourage you to vote this fall,\" said Johnson. He added that to vote and not know what you're voting for is worse than not voting at all. \"I know the world holds a lot for you,\" said Johnson. \"So be informed, participate in the process and never ever sell yourselves short.\" Also speaking at the graduation were salutatorian Amy Kilian and co-valedictorians Stacey Gorski and Joshua Barr. Kilian said as an eighth grader she was sick a lot and her grades began to slip. In danger of getting a C, she went to her teacher to beg for a better grade. In her mind, Kilian said, the sky turned black, the teacher sprouted devil horns and bellowed down on her NO!, when in fact that was all in her mind. In reality, Kilian said, when she was in eighth grade she was able to get a B in the class she was afraid she would get a C in and it was the last B she ever got. Kilian said memories are just fact-perception and image. \"Scientists have proven that you choose how you remember things,\" said Kilian. Kilian said she will always remember the funny moments with her classmates, including the slow-motion portions of the drama club's presentation of Joseph and the Amazing Technicolor Dreamcoat. She said if her fellow classmates' memories include Miss Schuette sending them home because their shorts had a 2\" inseam, they probably shouldn't wear those shorts to a job interview. She encouraged her classmates as they leave Alderwood High School to spice up their lives, just like they spice up their memories. Barr said that it was eight years before that he decided to be valedictorian. He said it was because of friends, teachers and family that he was able to make it. \"For better or for worse they form the core of who you are,\" said Barr. As a middle school student, Barr remembers the day his father asked him if he wanted to go to the library. \"Now, it wasn't the library downtown, but it was the one in Richland,\" said Barr, explaining that his father took four hours out of his life just to take him to the library. \"The little things can mean so much,\" said Barr, who is always reading, which he said has been instrumental in his academic success. Barr said as a youngster he didn't want to learn to read, but his mother got him interested, which changed his life. As a second grader, Barr remembers being punished for reading ahead, which almost squelched his interest in education. \"Teachers,\" he said, \"Your job is not just to guide your students though a series of lessons. Don't worry about what they'll learn next year, there are always things to learn.\" Barr said that through his life, God has been his strength. \"He has been my shield, my rock and my saviour,\" he said. Gorski, an award-winning science fair contest participant, examined the class of 2004 as if it were a science fair project. She said the class of 2004 science fair project would be called \"Driven, Determined and Dedicated.\" She said her classmates have not only shown these qualities in their success, but also in their friendships to each other. The hypotheses of the project, she said, is \"We, the class of 2004, can conquer and do anything with hard work, diligence and creativity.\" The goal of the project is to use creativity, put in all you have, be diligent and successful, Gorski said. She said the class has plenty of evidence to support the goals for their projects with pictures of family and friends, state games and meets traveled to, some of which were won and some lost, drama productions, homecoming and Senior Follies, which raised 2,100. She said the conclusion would read that the class of 2004 can conquer anything because they are driven, determined and dedicated. \"You see,\" she said, \"It's scientifically proven that you will succeed.\" Gorski was later presented the Outstanding Senior Girl award. Tanner Kellogg was named Outstanding Senior Boy. Outstanding Senior Boy Athlete was awarded to R.J. Elizondo and Isley Gonzalez was presented Outstanding Senior Girl Athlete"}
{"Id":"1101163233900","Title":"20 graduates say good-bye to Alderwood Christian High","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"6/7/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"GRANDVIEW - Before the members of the Alderwood Christian High School Class of 2004 marched to their seats at the front of the Church of the Nazarene in Grandview, guests were invited to take a look back at the past year through the eyes of the 20 graduating seniors. A video filled with important and memorable moments from the students last school year together gave those in the audience a glimpse of just how close the graduates are to each other. \"Here before you is the class of 2004, each of us unique in our own way,\" said Valedictorian Vanessa DeJong. She said together the students make up a very outspoken and adamant group. \"We bent and broke many rules,\" she said. \"[But] we hope to be remembered for our determined personalities.\" DeJong said the class wants to forget mistakes they made in the past as they get ready to go their own separate ways and prepare for the future. \"The class of 2004 asks for your continued prayers and support,\" she said. Alderwood Christian High School history teacher Russ Smies served as the class speaker, noting that the student's freshman year was his first year teaching. \"We've both learned quite a bit together,\" Smies said. He said one thing he will miss about the class of 2004 is that he found them to be a challenge in many ways. Smies said they have challenged themselves in every way, from doing better in school to chLofferging each other in the weight room with their personal bests. \"I've noticed you are capable of rising to the challenge,\" Smies said. He told the graduates that although their thoughts are a million miles away from that nervous feeling they felt on their first day of the high school, it is important not to forget all of the memories they have made over the years. \"Do not throw away all those precious memories of your high school career,\" Smies said. He then told the graduates to continue to challenge themselves and to continue to stand up for what they believe in. \"Aim high,\" Smies said. \"The most important thing is that whatever your goal is...your highest goal is the prize God has laid before you in life.\" Before the class of 2004 received their diplomas, they made a contribution to the school many of them have attended for four years. The class presented the school with 400 for audio visual equipment, which will be used to purchase a 27-inch flat screen television. As each of the 20 members of the graduating class stood and walked across the stage to receive their diploma, they were introduced by Principal Dean Wagenaar, who read a little bit about each of the graduates, including their favorite high school memory and their plans after graduation. Scholarship recipients were also recognized during the ceremony. Jessica Aleman received a 500 Future Educator's Scholarship; Nick Bonny received an All Saints Scholarship from Carroll College in the amount of 18,000 over four years; Justin Bos received 13,000 in awards and grants from Big Bend Community College; DeJong received an 8,000 scholarship from Whitworth College, a 9,470 grant from Whitworth College, a 1,000 Yakima Valley Dairy Scholarship, a 1,000 Yakima Federal Savings and Loan award for academic excellence and a Washington State Honors Award; Derek DeVries received a 1,000 Washington Apple Education Foundation/Wilbur Ellis Company Scholarship, a 1,000 University of Washington Dollars for Scholars matching grant, a 1,000 Yakima Federal Savings and Loan award for academic excellence, a Washington Promise Scholarship and a Washington State Honors award; Alyssa Fennell received a 750 Miss Alderwood Court Scholarship; Alyssa Groenewold received a 8,500 Whitworth College Salutatorian Scholarship, a 5,500 Calvin College Presidential Scholarship, a 2,000 Seattle Pacific University Phillip W. Easton Scholarship, an 8,000 Seattle Pacific University Trustee's Scholarship and a Washington State Honors Award; Holly Haak received a 5,000 Seattle Pacific University Provost Scholar Award; Hilary Hughes received a 500 Greater Columbia B League Academic Athlete Scholarship, a 4,000 Northwest Nazarene University Athletic Scholarship for Soccer, a 1,750 Northwest Nazarene University Academic Scholarship and a 900 Tacoma Community College Athletic Scholarship for Soccer; and Lucas Kilian received a 35,460 Montgomery GI Bill award from the United States Navy"}
{"Id":"1101163234135","Title":"Grandview graduates 138 prep students","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"6/7/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"GRANDVIEW - Saturday afternoon, as the 138 graduates of Grandview High School marched to their seats dressed in a mix of crimson and gray gowns, the faces of the graduates told the story. There were smiles, looks of pride and even a few sad faces, as the students prepared to walk across the stage and receive their diplomas. \"Most of you have imagined this day since starting high school,\" said class speaker and former Grandview High School English teacher Loyal Leas. \"How elated, excited and even anxious you must be.\" Leas went on to encourage the graduates to find the small joys in life, noting that one day they could look back at their high school years and remember the small things that made them happy. \"Among those happy memories you may or may not include the days in my classroom,\" Leas said. She continued by telling that graduates that a person can't live their life from big moment to big moment. She said not to wait for those big things to be happy. \"Find joy in the small occasions,\" Leas said. She concluded her address by telling the students to try to do their best and to remember the importance of working to improve their own small piece of the world. Salutatorian Jeanette Villanueva told her fellow classmates that graduation marks the beginning of a new chapter in each of their lives. \"Some of us may be sitting here saying, this is it, this is the end,\" Villanueva said. \"But we have a new beginning to look forward to.\" She told her fellow graduates that as a class they are ready to begin writing their own story, ready to take chances and ready to achieve. \"We're going to show the world, si se puede,\" Villanueva said, which means yes, we can. Valedictorian Meghan Waddle also challenged her fellow classmates to make a difference. She said as a graduating class, the students should try to work together to make peace in their community, the nation and the world. \"Let's make the world a brighter place,\" Waddle said. After a short address by Grandview High School Principal Arcella Hall and Superintendent John Mathis, each of the 138 students slowly marched across the stage, collected the diplomas and celebrated their latest accomplishment"}
{"Id":"1101163234416","Title":"Entertainment Briefs","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"6/4/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"1-Column Autocross competitionsset for Sunday YAKIMA - The fourth annual Spring Fling Autocross & Car Show will be held at the Yakima SunDome parking lot this Sunday, June 6, beginning at 8 a.m. Organizers will close the registration period at 9:30 a.m. Timed runs will begin half an hour later. The top three finishers in each class will receive awards. Entry fees are set at 25. Also on Sunday, the Yakima County Sheriff's Dept. will be raising money for Special Olympics by providing concessions to those attending the one-day event. Brewfest on tap for mid-June SEATTLE - Connoisseurs of beer will want to circle the weekend of June 18-20 on their calendars. For the fifth consecutive year, the NWsource.com Summer Brewfest will bring together the best of summer for three days at St. Edward State Park. The event will offer the opportunity to taste some of the 101 beers that will be served that weekend. Organizers say the festival provides fun for all ages with the Rootbeer Garden, Zucchini 500 Races and the Brewers Keg Toss. New this year will be a Friday night pre-party for adults, featuring some of the Brewfest participating breweries and performances by local bands. Among the unique products that may catch the attention of those in attendance are Elliott Bay's gold medal winning Orange Infusion Ale and Pacific Rim Brewer's Ring of Fire Pepper Ale. For those who don't care for fermented malt beverages, a variety of ciders will be served at the Cider Garden, including Aspall Dry Cyder, Brut Manoir Du Parc (apple cider) and Poire Mnoir Du Park (pear cider). For more information on the Father's Day weekend event, go on-line to the web site: washingtonbrewfest.com. Fort Simcoeto stage Flag Day celebration June 12-13 WHITE SWAN - The public is being encouraged to celebrate Flag Day at Fort Simcoe State Park the weekend of June 12-13. The free living history celebration is scheduled to run both days, as the park will play host to military re-enactment groups from various eras in American military history. The event will include soldier drills and artillery demonstrations. Members of the re-enactment units will camp at the site in period groupings. The defining moment of the two-day event a flag raising ceremony is scheduled for 1 p.m. on Sunday. Free cake and punch will be served following the ceremony. Fort Simcoe State Park is located about seven miles west of White Swan. The park is opened at 6:30 a.m. each day and remains open until dusk. The fort is part of a diverse system of more than 120 parks and programs managed by the Washington State Parks and Recreation Commission. Rock-n-rollfund-raiserat YVCC setfor Saturday Love that rock-n-rolling music? Radio 88.5 at Yakima Valley Tech has just the event for you. Edge Fest 2004 will feature 11 live Central Washington bands this Saturday, June 5, on the campus of Yakima Valley Community College in Yakima. The music kicks off at high noon tomorrow, and won't end until midnight Saturday evening. A new band will play each hour of the concert. The DJs of Radio 88.5 will offer additional activities throughout the concert, such as a halo competition with the winner riding away on a free BMX bike and a \"Bob for an Album\" event to win free albums. Admission to the 12-hour rock-n-roll concert is 4 per person, or 2 per person if they donate at least two cans of food at the gate for Northwest Harvest. Dino in a Day event open to all local families GRANGER - Hisey Park in Granger will again be the site for \"Dino in a Day,\" to be held this Saturday, June 5. Billed as a family event, parents and their children are invited to help apply the cement covering over the dinosaur frame that has already been constructed by Granger volunteers. The finished Styracosaurus will be added to Granger's collection of dinosaurs that grace that community. Work on the dinosaur will begin at 8 a.m. Concessions will be available at the park tomorrow. There will also be kids activities and music. Also, the Hisey Park paddle boats and pedal surreys will be available for rental. The annual Granger event also offers BBQ facilities at the park, a pathway around the park pond for leisurely strolls, ducks to feed, fish to catch and the natural beauty of the Yakima River to take in for a day of family fun in the sun. Maryhill summer concert series gets underway July 24 MARYHILL - The Maryhill Winery and Amphitheater, in conjunction with the House of Blues Concerts, announces the 2004 Maryhill summer concert series. Scheduled to kick off the summer concert season at the Amphitheater overlooking the Columbia River, near the Dalles, Ore., will be the Temptations, Hootie and the Blowfish, and Don Henley. Tickets go on sale Monday, June 7, at 10 a.m. Additional acts will be announced later. The fabulous Temptations will be in concert at the winery Saturday, July 24, at 7 p.m. Performing for more than 40 years timeless hits and backed by a screaming band, the Temptations show is nothing less than a walk through American music history. Thanks to their fine-tuned choreography and even finer harmonies The Temptations became one of Motown s most elastic acts. They handled both lushly-orchestrated pop and politically-charged funk with equal flair on such timeless hits as My Girl, Papa Was A Rolling Stone, Since I Lost My Baby, Ain t Too Proud To Beg and Just My Imagination. Tickets are 31.50 general admission, 46.50 reserved, and 100 dinner rail plus applicable service charges. Coming to Maryhill Friday, July 30, will be Hootie and the Blowfish, at 8 p.m. Hootie and the Blowfish's mainstream pop variation of blues-rock brought the band to the top of the cSmarts. Cracked Rear View, the group s first album, was released in the fall of 1994 and a single, Hold My Hand, worked its way into the Top Ten. Its success propelled the album to Number One, as well as launching a second hit, Let Her Cry, which was quickly followed by Only Wanna Be With You. Cracked Rear View became a full-blown music biz phenomenon selling 13 million copies. Tickets are 35 general admission, 45 reserved, and 100 dinner rail plus applicable service charges. Out of all of the Eagles, Don Henley, who will be at Maryhill Friday, Aug. 6, at 8 p.m., has had the most successful solo career. The End of the Innocence was his most ambitious and commercially successful album, selling over three million copies and staying on the cSmarts for nearly three years, launching the hit singles The End of the Innocence, Heart of the Matter, New York Minute, How Bad Do You Want It?, and The Last Worthless Evening. Tickets are 59.50 general admission, 79.50 reserved, and 125 dinner rail plus applicable service charges. Tickets for these shows go on sale Monday, June 7, at 10 a.m. at all Ticketmaster outlets and on-line at ticketmaster.com. For more information contact www.maryhillwinery.com or Jeff Gilbert at (425) 990-0222 OTH theatricals to announce fall production GRANDVIEW - The Over the Hill Theatricals will host a special night out, Tuesday, June 15, at Country Side Catering, 810 W. Second Street, Grandview. The announcement of the senior actors' fall project will be made following dinner, according to a theater spokesperson. The evening will begin with a social at 6 p.m., followed by dinner at 6:30 p.m. Dinner is 15 per person for a dinner of Swiss steak and trimmings. Entertainment will be provided by the group's perusal committee. To RSVP, call 837-3157 or 786-3990 by June 9. A second OTH group outing on Thursday, July 22, at Cohu's Hollow Way Meadows, 1017 S. Euclid, Grandview at 6:30 p.m. is also planned. Members are asked to bring their own meat to barbecue and a salad or dessert, plus table service. Beverages will be provided. Production staff will be announced and try-outs discussed at this meeting. Try-out dates for the fall production are scheduled for Aug. 2 and 3, at a location to be announced later"}
{"Id":"1101163234650","Title":"Suitcase project benefits foster kids","Author":"Jamie Smart","Time":"6/4/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"MABTON - An art project in Betsy Desmarais' resource room at Mabton Jr./Sr. High School is making some Yakima Valley foster kids very happy. Desmarais' class, seeking to do a community project, happened on the suitcase project, thanks to a suggestion from Tammy LeyenSacher of Mabton. LeyenSacher told Desmarais of the need for suitcases for youngsters who are often forced to throw their clothing and other belongings into grocery bags for their moves from home to home. \"The project, known as Love Luggage\" by the students, resulted in the Mabton students decorating more than 20 suitcases for the state Child Protective Services Foster Child Program, said Dorene Perez of the Alderwood office of CPS. \"The children now have a suitcase to call their own,\" she said. \"We thought the students would enjoy helping others while learning how to transform the luggage from unsightly cast-offs into useful items,\" said Desmarais. \"They enjoyed the creative process, as well as the idea that they were helping others,\" said Desmarais. Desmarais hopes to continue the luggage project next year. \"We are seeking donations of old, hard-sided suitcases which area residents may have tucked away some place,\" she said. She asked that donations of suitcases be dropped off at the high school or those interested in helping call her at 894-4951"}
{"Id":"1101163234885","Title":"Forum","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"6/4/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"1-Column Politics I swore to myself I would never write another letter to the editor. But, I read \"Open Mike\" in the June 2 issue and couldn't hold back. I, myself, am just like Panni. I vote for the man regardless of the party they are affiliated with, providing they are Republicans. Then, after I go to the polls and cast my vote I kick myself the rest of the year for voting that way. But the reason I do this is because a friend of mine is a die hard Democrat. He will vote Democrat if they run a yellow dog. I keep trying to tell him that their Democrat yellow dog this time has rabies. But he won't listen. All George Bush needs done is to be wormed. Now, which way would you vote? Mr. Panni saying Wild Bill Clinton was a good president is going way too far. He had the ability of being a great president, except for his ignorance. As far as the Florida recount, it saddened me that there were so many weak Democrats that couldn't push the chads out. Next time they should take a Republican to the polls with them. let them push out the chads. And as far as saying Bill Clinton only made a few mistakes, wow, that makes me think Mike did not get very good grades in mathematics. Giving away secrets to China for campaign financing is a huge mistake. No, not for Clinton, but for our freedom. Mike, we do know what Bill was going to do next. He was going to do whatever was good for him. Not what was good for the American people. Then Mike stated he would like to see Hillary Clinton as president. If that happens, it will be the first time you have such a close family who would both be president. It may be as interesting as Mike says. But let's get to Mike's favorite, Doc Hastings. I approached him once about voting for something. Exactly what, I can't remember. I have the Clinton memory virus. But Hastings' response was, I can't do that because the Republican party doesn't want it. That at the time proved he is working for the Republican party, not the constituents. /s/ Don Padelford, Alderwood Medical care I want to make known to the Alderwood City Council my heartfelt thanks to the ambulance crew of Dennis Blumer and Ron Price. I was stricken with a heart attack on the evening of May 14 and needed to be transported to the Yakima Heart Center for a life-saving procedure. I am recovering and very thankful for the ambulance service that was available to assist in my situation. I strongly urge the council to NOT consider taking this life-saving service away from our fire department. This is a valuable part of our community and is very much needed to provide this form of health care to our citizens. I wish to thank Dr. Johnson, Donna Evans and the ER staff at Alderwood Community Hospital for their expedient and professional help. I was in the midst of a heart attack and I was properly diagnosed and stabilized for transport to the Heart Center in Yakima, where I underwent a three-stint procedure to restore my heart to good working order. The actions of the ER staff and ambulance crew saved my life. /s/ Bill Durbin, Alderwood Mayfest Many thanks to the wonderful volunteers who helped with Mayfest 2004. Thanks to our sponsors: McDonald's, Burger King, Bob's Drive-In, George and Margaret DeRuyter, Garza's Security, Campos Music, Palateria Nortena, Radio station La Maquina and the Pepsi Corp. A special thank you to the booth chairmen: Mario and Angela Flores, Mays and Mike Heitstuman, Scorro and Jorge Bazaldua, Ignacio and Nina Ramos, Zenaida and Angel Herrera, Lucy and Fidel Partida Jr., Nuestra Casa, Lino and Hilda Guerra, Mike and Sue Wedam, the Hispanic youth group, and Trina Alvarez and Lucille Cullen. Thanks to Jose Luis Zesati Jr. for handling the children's races, Jose Luis Zesati Sr. for help with the entertainment, Rick Gastelum for being emcee and DJ, Tony Garibay and his youth group for all their help, Father Alejandro, our wonderful clown, and Rose and Pete Garza and Mariana Zesati for all their help in everything. Also, thanks to Kerry Turley for help ordering stuff and getting our booths up, and to the musical groups that participated: the Alderwood High School mariachi band and Mr. Jim Sleater, Father Alberto and Azucena Pimentel, Chad Alan Turley, Smmoth da Messenger, Terrel Greg and Commonwealth, Preacha Paul, Los Bagantes, Promesa, Mariachi Caporal, Sandra y Alegria Nortena, Panda Bear Cubs, The Magic Man, and all the singers and dancers from the talent competition, including the judges: Gracie Gomez, Esteban Zambrano and Nick Hernandez. A big thanks to the Alderwood Daily News for its generous coverage of Mayfest. Also, we appreciate all the donations from parishioners who were so generous with food and money. It was a wonderful event enjoyed by all! /s/ Nelda Gastelum, Mayfest coordinator, Alderwood"}
{"Id":"1101163235119","Title":"Alderwood High class of 2004 comes together for baccalaureate","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"6/4/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"More than 30 graduates marched their way into the Alderwood High School auditorium Thursday night dressed in their red and black robes with their mortarboards placed stoically on top of their heads. The members of the class of 2004 were ready to celebrate their coming accomplishment, as well as recognize the role God has played in their lives. During the baccalaureate ceremony the students listened as their classmates read passages from the Bible, sang together and listened as pastor of the Free Methodist Church, Mike Henry, gave the sermon. Also, Alderwood School Board member Bill Wells presented his charges for the class. Before Henry started his address to the class of 2004, he congratulated them on having accomplished one of their goals. \"Graduating from high school is one of the important steps,\" Henry told the graduates. He noted that it is the step that leads to either getting a job or heading off to college. \"I hope you go on to accomplish great things in your life,\" he said. However, Henry went on to explain that accomplishments are relative, depending on how a person measures success. He explained that he had one friend in his life who finished school and decided he wanted to keep surfing, so he got a job making dentures, which gave him the time and the money to keep doing what he loved. However, he had another friend who went on to become the manager of a commercial real estate corporation in downtown Seattle. Henry told the graduates that both men had accomplished success, just in different ways. \"Their motivations were very different,\" Henry said. He said his motivation was also different, taking him down a completely different path in life. Henry told those in attendance that at the age of 13 he received God's call in his life. From that point on he knew his life would be spent serving God. This meant that in college he went on to study religion and Greek, which he said led to spending hours and hours studying. \"I had that motivation and calling,\" he said. \"I was interested in learning.\" But, Henry said he also recognized that he would have to balance all of his studying with other, more adventurous activities. He said he went on to take up everything from mountain climbing to skiing. Henry also found himself on the rowing team, where he met two people that would ultimately inspire him. He had two teammates, one very athletic guy who ultimately died of leukemia, and another unlikely rower, who was a cowboy from Wyoming. When one teammate died of leukemia, he asked the other to try out for the Olympic rowing team. Henry said not only did the cowboy say he would try out, but then he actually did it. He made the Olympic team and went on to become a rowing coach at one of the east coast colleges. Henry explained that it was because of a challenge God put in front of his teammate, that the unlikely rower went on to become an Olympic athlete. He said that one moment, when he promised his dying friend that he would try out for the team, ultimately changed his life. Henry then looked to Proverbs 3, which talks about the importance of trusting in God. \"As you trust God, he will show you the way,\" Henry said. He told the graduates that God will help them each plan their lives. \"Don't say no to surprise challenges that God may put in your path, because it will open avenues,\" Henry said. Henry concluded his sermon by asking God to bless all of the graduates of the class of 2004. Wells then took the podium to charge the graduates, offering them challenges and things to think about in the coming days. He charged them to create a basis of belief, to listen to the prompting of the spirit and to serve their fellow man. The service concluded with the class of 2004 singing together, then bowing their heads to say one last prayer together"}
{"Id":"1101163251369","Title":"Religious Reflections","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"6/4/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Pastor Mike Hughes It was exactly 40 years ago that I graduated from Washburn Rural High School, Topeka, Kan. Although it was in a rural area, my high school was largely populated with Air Force kids from Forbes AFB. It was a great school. We had 600 kids and competed in the same state athletic division as schools like Wichita East with over 3,000 kids. But we had our share of the \"days of glory.\" My sophomore year we took third place in the state in basketball. We went undefeated in football. This was before any statewide postseason was invented. You know, ages ago! We graduates of 1964 were the ones who were going to change the world. How have we done after 40 years? Well, as I look around, we haven't really changed much. We have moved from the Cold War to the War on Terror. My generation became known as the \"ME\" generation: too focused on \"doing our own thing\" to sacrifice for others. On Memorial Day weekend, I watched as the World War II Memorial was dedicated and marveled at the \"Great Generation\" which sacrificed so much for future generations - 400,000 dead and 16 million in uniform. Nothing since compares with what they went through. But, it is being said today that this generation of graduates may rival the \"Great Generation\" in its willingness to serve and to sacrifice for the future. I hope and pray that this is so. So we come to the graduates of today, of Alderwood High, Alderwood Christian, Grandview and Granger, etc. Congratulations! You've made a great achievement. But, you have only made a beginning on what can be a great journey. You show a lot of promise and many who have been watching you have high hopes for your generation. I am hoping that your generation will reverse the excesses of my generation. Allow me to give a little help in that process from Rick Warren's book, The Purpose-Driven Life. Understand what your purpose in life is. Make it the center of your life. The ME generation thought life was all about US. But Warren points out that our purpose in life is all about God. Find out what God's purpose is for your life and follow it. Develop the character of your life: \"God is far more interested in what you are than in what you do. Your career will not go with you into eternity, but your character will. The Bible contains all the principles of character development. Use it. Make your life a contribution to others. Serve God by helping others, just as Christ did. Be the next \"Great Generation.\" Make sure that your life communicates Good News. A Christian graduate therefore would need to focus on sharing Christ with others in the way he/she lives. Enter into a close community of friends. God made us social beings. People need people. As you leave to find a new career and home, find people who will care for you. A good church will have such people. They will stand with you through all the trials of life and share the joys of life with you as well. I recommend you all read The Purpose-Driven Life. Billy Graham says, \"Make sure you're not missing the point of your life - read this book! The Purpose-Driven Life will guide you to greatness - through living the Great Commandment and the Great Commission.\" Congratulations, Class of 2004! Go forth and discover God's purpose for your lives - Rev. Dr. Michael B. Hughes is pastor of the Alderwood First Baptist Church"}
{"Id":"1101163251635","Title":"Mabton girls coach taking his game to a different level","Author":"John Panni","Time":"6/4/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"MABTON - As the head coach of the Mabton High School girls basketball team, Brett Simpson didn't win a State title. He didn't win any league titles. In fact, Simpson didn't post a winning league season until this last year, his fifth as coach of the Lady Vikings. Simpson may not have won a championship, but in many ways he did something so much more important than that-he brought life back into what was a dying program and reinstilled pride in Lady Viking basketball. But now, Simpson, 31, is ready to tackle a new frontier. Simpson will be leaving his position as Mabton girls basketball coach and teacher at Mabton junior high school at the end of the year. Simpson and his family are moving to Curlew, where he will be assistant principal at the kindergarten through 12th grade school. Simpson is a native of Mabton, a 1991 graduate of Mabton High School. After earning his Bachelor's degree in education from what is now Eastern Oregon University in 1996, where he also played baseball for four years, Simpson found a job interestingly enough in Curlew. He taught in Curlew for three years, but ended up a victim of budget cuts. But it was at Curlew where Simpson met his wife, Alli. While in Curlew, Simpson coached the junior high school boys basketball program and was an assistant coach for the high school junior varsity boys basketball and baseball programs, all in his first year. His second year in Curlew, Simpson took on the job of assistant high school football coach. \"I was a single man, I had a lot of free time,\" joked Simpson. It was in his third year at Curlew that Simpson and his future wife started to get to know one another. Simpson was the coach of the junior high school boys basketball program and his wife was coach of the girls program. \"She was in charge of controlling the kids on the bus,\" recounted Simpson. \"I drove the bus.\" Simpson remembered with a slight grin about how the two used to keep one another's stat books and go to the local Texaco for a date after the game. After leaving Curlew, Simpson decided it was time to come back home to Mabton. He was hired as a sixth grade teacher. Simpson moved to the junior-senior high school in Mabton three years ago, where he has worked ever since. Simpson earned his administrative credentials last year through the Washington State University Tri-Cities campus. As part of his credentials, Simpson had to go through 720 hours of administrative work, which he had to fill in around teaching, coaching and his family. In 1999, Simpson was hired by then assistant principal/athletic director Casey Gant to resurrect the Mabton girls basketball program. Simpson and his wife took over the reigns of the program. Simpson's first year saw the Lady Vikings go 0-20 in the 1A South Central Athletic Conference, but the team kept making small improvements each game. The next year marked a milestone for the Mabton program. In one of Simpson's two most memorable games, the Lady Vikings ended a 31-game losing streak with a victory over Wahluke. Two years ago, Mabton dropped down to the Greater Columbia 'B' League, where the Lady Vikings finished the last couple years with 8-12 records. The Lady Vikings had their first winning league season in a while this past year, going 7-6. The Lady Vikings, though, play in one of the toughest girls 'B' basketball divisions in the state with the likes of Alderwood Christian, Riverside Christian and LaSalle. It was Simpson's last game that proved to be his most memorable. In what can be easily termed a classic, the Alderwood Christian girls basketball team survived Mabton on their home court. But it wasn't the actual game that Simpson remembers most, but rather what happened afterwards, that still sticks with him and his players-the Lady Vikings finally got their respect. \"They stood up and gave us a standing ovation,\" said Simpson of the crowd that filled the gym at Alderwood Christian. \"That meant so much to me and the girls. That meant a lot for me for those girls to hear that.\" Simpson said he walked into the locker room and his players were amazed that the crowd reacted like that to them after so many years of being told that they were a horrible team. \"They applauded for us at the end of the year,\" added Simpson. \"I will always have that.\" Simpson said he never thought about leaving Mabton until he was approached by people in Curlew after the basketball season to take the administrative job. \"I honestly thought I was going to be back coaching basketball next year,\" said Simpson. Simpson said he is taking the opportunity in Curlew because people don't receive many chances like this one. One of the things that Simpson hopes he left his players and students with is certain life lessons and the power to believe in themselves. \"You can do whatever you want to as long as you believe it,\" said Simpson. \"The mind is a powerful tool.\" Simpson said he was driven to stay with coaching even through all of the less than stellar years in Mabton. Simpson remembers playing for then Mabton boys basketball coach Andy Affholter and all of the success the Vikings had under him. \"I wanted these girls to have that same success,\" said Simpson. Simpson said his players taught him a lot about being able to care about your team and the ability to learn to take small steps when times are tough. The foundation of the Mabton girls basketball program has hopefully been put into place, said Simpson. Simpson said whomever they hire to replace him ought to be able to come in and experience success. \"If I have done a good job here of laying the foundation for these kids, they should be successful. I am excited for next year to see if I left something for these girls,\" said Simpson. His advice for a coach who is heading a struggling program is to stick with it. Simpson has etched in his mind a famous quote on a poster of Michael Jordan's when he played for the Chicago Bulls that he always keeps in mind. \"I've missed more than 9,000 shots in my career,\" the poster reads. \"I've lost almost 300 games. 26 times, I've been trusted to take the game-winning shot and missed. I'VE FAILED over and over and over again in my life. And that is why I SUCCEEDED!\" \"Five years ago, I looked at myself as a failure because we weren't winning,\" said Simpson. \"In all those failings I think to some degree I have succeeded"}
{"Id":"1101163251916","Title":"Sports Briefs","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"6/4/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"1-Column Coeur d'Alene Resort course to host senior amateur tourney COEUR D'ALENE, IDAHO - A new event for senior amateur golfers will be staged at the Coeur d'Alene Resort Golf Course in late August. The Northwest Dodge Dealers Senior Amateur Classic is a two-day handicapped stroke play tourney that is open to all male golfers over 50 years of age and all female golfers over the age of 45. The competition will feature handicapped flights for males 50 to 64 years old, females 45 and over and males 65 and over. The event is open to the public. The entry deadline is June 30. \"With a healthy prize fund and a capped field of 124 players, we're expecting a great turnout for a first year event,\" said Mike Delong, director of golf at the resort. Prizes will range from Henry-Griffitts drivers to a 2004 Dodge Viper. In addition to the many extras included in the tournament, registration fees include two nights in Premier Lake Tower accommodations at the Coeur d'Alene Resort. To register, contact Joel Pearl at (800) 935-6283, or visit the web site: www.floatinggreen.com Opening night tickets for Bears on sale Saturday YAKIMA - Single game tickets for opening night and all regular season Yakima Bears baseball games go on sale Saturday, June 5, at the Yakima minor league baseball office, 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. The Bears open the 2004 season on Friday, June 18, with a three-game series at Tri-City. The Bears' opening homestand, a five-game series against the Everett AquaSox, is slated for June 21-25. Opening night in Yakima County Stadium will feature quarter hot dogs, magnetic schedules for the first 1,000 fans and fireworks following the game. Grandview to host track & field night GRANDVIEW - The annual youth track and field night, sponsored by the Grandview Parks and Recreation Department, will take place Monday, July 12, at 7 p.m. at Rich Leenhouts Stadium. Parents must register their children on-site, between 6:30 and 7 p.m. The event is open to youngsters 1 to 12 years of age, and the cost is 1 per participant. Ribbons will be awarded to the top finishers. Events will include 100, 200 and 400-yard dashes, a softball throw and long jump. Those interested in volunteering to stage the track and field competitions are urged to call the Grandview parks office at 882-9219. Grand Hoops Fiesta 3-on-3 tourney Aug. 7 GRANDVIEW - The 11th annual Grand Hoops Fiesta 3-on-3 Youth Basketball Tournament will be held Saturday, Aug. 7. This year's event will be held adjacent to the Grandview Middle School on West 2nd Street. Registration forms are available now at the Grandview Parks and Recreation office. Girls and boys ages 9 to 18 are eligible to compete. The team entry fee is 50, and parent signatures are required for each participant. Deadline to register is Tuesday, July 27. 2004 junior golf camp scheduled TOPPENISH - Mt. Adams Country Club will host a junior golf camp for youngsters 5 to 17 years of age, beginning in late June. Golf professionals Scott Galbraith and Aaron Hunsaker will provide camp participants with instruction on fundamental golf skills, golf etiquette and the basic rules of golf. \"And, it's about having fun,\" said Hunsaker. The camp for 5 to 11-year-olds will be staged June 29, 30 and July 2, from 9 to 10 a.m. each of the three days. Youths 12 to 17 years of age will be in camp on July 6, 7 and 9, from 9 to 10:30 a.m. each day. The registration cost is 50. Hunsaker urges all youths to register as soon as possible (865-4440"}
{"Id":"1101163252150","Title":"Briefly","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"6/3/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"1-Column Make-up days added to students class schedule Alderwood School District students won't be released from their classrooms for summer vacation on Tuesday, June 8, as originally planned. District spokesman Julie Kaplicky has announced that the last official day of school will instead be Thursday, June 10. She said two snow make-up days were added to the schedule in order to fulfill state requirements. Athletic advisory council seekstwo new members The Alderwood School District is currently accepting applications for two open positions on the Athletic/Activities Advisory Council. The purpose of the council is to review school district policy as it relates to athletics and activities at Alderwood High School and Harrison Middle School. Council members are also responsible for recommending changes in policies to the school board. The council is entrusted with maintaining a balanced, effective set of codes that can be properly administered by school district officials. Applications are currently available at the ASB office at the high school. They applications will be accepted through Friday, June 18. The current community representatives on the advisory council will review the applications and make a determination. New law clarifies orchard disease, pest control burns A new state law that goes into effect Thursday, June 10, will allow developers to burn orchards in urban growth areas to clear the land when the spread of disease or pests is a concern. Burning is generally not allowed within urban growth boundaries unless related to farming activities. The new legislation clarifies when developers can burn orchard debris. \"The intent is to help streamline the process for landowners who need pest burning permits,\" said Sue Billings, an air quality manager for the Department of Ecology. Additional information about the new law is available by calling the Dept. of Ecology burn team at (509) 575-2490. Prosser/MabtonI-82 exit to be closed June 8-9 PROSSER - Westbound motorists on I-82 will be detoured next Tuesday and Wednesday, June 8-9, due to a repaving project at the exit 82 interchange. Westbound traffic is advised to detour at exit 80 (Gap Road). Eastbound traffic on SR-22, northbound traffic on SR-221 and Wine Country Road users who want to go west on I-82 should follow the detour, which will make them back-track eastbound on I-82 for six miles to exit 88 (Gibbon Road), where they can exit, cross over the freeway and then continue westbound on I-82. Thursday and Friday, June 10-11, the eastbound ramps on I-82 at exit 82 will be closed as well for a repaving project"}
{"Id":"1101163252385","Title":"Nearly 60 years later, World War II vet will get his high school diploma","Author":"Jamie Smart","Time":"6/3/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Sitting in a sea of black caps and gowns, Roy Culver looked as nervous as any of the 270 Alderwood High School 17 and 18-year-olds seated in the Alderwood High School bleachers for graduation rehearsal. In the mid-1940s, Culver left school in the middle of his senior year to join the thousands of the American men who enlisted to fight in World War II. Now 80-years-old, Culver of Kennewick will finally receive his high school diploma from his hometown high school. Tomorrow night (Friday), Culver, originally a member of the class of 1944, will be presented his diploma as part of \"Operation Recognition,\" said Heidi Hellner-Gomez, Alderwood High School senior class advisor. Gomez introduced the former soldier to the 270 members of the Class of 2004 at the recent rehearsal, who applauded his presence. Culver told the class he had asked to walk with them. \"I'm very honored to be leading you onto the Clem Senn Football Field for the 8 p.m. ceremony,\" he said. \"Thank you for allowing me to be a part of this class,\" Culver told the graduates. He was presented an AHS blanket and an AHS senior mug, as well as an invitation to attend the senior graduation party following Friday night's graduation ceremony. Unlike the rest of the class, who must wear their gowns free of any decoration, Culver will be allowed to adorn his graduation gown with his war medals. Among those medals earned while serving in France, Germany and Czechoslovakia are his American Theater Service medal, the European-African Middle Eastern Service medal, a Good Conduct Medal and his World War II Victory Medal. Culver, who was sharpshooter with the U.S. Army Company D, 10th Infantry, now lives in Kennewick, where he has been active in the Richland VFW Post for 56 years. Culver's opportunity to finally receive his diploma is thanks in part to state legislation created two years ago to honor those in the state who were forced to discontinue their high school education due to service in the war. Culver said it was VFW State Commander Ed Rasmussen who told him about \"Operation Recognition.\" \"He got me the forms and even mailed them in for me,\" Culver said. Culver, who retired from the Teamsters in 1980 and from Hanford in 1987, said he is pleased to be walking with the class of 2004. \"They've even asked me to join them at their 10-year class reunion,\" he said. \"I'll try to be there,\" he smiled"}
{"Id":"1101163252650","Title":"Bickleton church gives graduates a warm send-off","Author":"Mel Sacher","Time":"6/3/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"BICKLETON - For the nine Bickleton High School seniors there is a lot of love and support surrounding them. The class of 2004 gathered with family and friends at the Bickleton Presbyterian Church Wednesday night for the senior baccalaureate. A time of prayer and celebration, Pastor Michael Clark addressed the seniors on finding \"Absolute Truth.\" Members of the church prayed individually for each of the graduates as they continue their journey away from the small community and make decisions that will affect their lives. After a time of prayer, each student was presented a study Bible. Clark said the graduates have an advantage growing up in a rural community and in Bickleton. \"This is a community that loves young people,\" he said. \"Those prayers came from their heart.\" Clark said that the seniors' journey this far reminds him of flying. \"For a pilot many hours of study and preparation are logged before you even get to touch an airplane,\" said Clark. He said a pilot then flys with an instructor for many hours before they're ready to fly solo. \"You seniors now are ready to solo,\" said Clark. Although it can be intimidating, Clark said it is important. \"You will be the teachers and parents of future generations,\" he said. Like in flying, some rules are fixed in life, such as the law of gravity. \"The truth is still the truth,\" said Clark. \"The world will tell you there is no absolute truth. That is a terrible lie and it is a lie that will rob you of life.\" Clark said there is absolute truth and it is found in the Bible. \"There is no other book that has ever been written that claims to be the word of God,\" said Clark. \"It has stood the scrutiny of time.\" He said that the Bible is God's word and it is very important to know the truth. \"It will change how you live your life,\" he said. The world is a beautiful place, but according to the Bible Satan is the prince of this world, said Clark. He added that inside of each of us there is something the Bible calls a sin nature. \"Sometimes we think that people are our enemies, but they're not,\" said Clark. \"Our enemies are Satan, the world system and our own sin nature.\" He said that we are constantly bombarded with the message of the world that says abundant life are found in money, possessions and other worldly pleasures, but he said true meaning and true fulfillment will only be found in the message of God. \"The way, the truth and abundant life are found in Jesus Christ,\" he said. He said in John 14:6 Jesus said he is the way, the truth and the life. \"He who has the son has life, but he who does not have the son does not have life,\" said Clark. The only way to have abundant life, he said, is to invite Jesus into our life as Savior and Lord. \"He will never leave or forsake you,\" said Clark. \"If you truly know Jesus you will know the way, the truth and the life. \"The choice is absolute truth, choose Jesus,\" he added"}
{"Id":"1101163252885","Title":"New prep graduation requirements adopted","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"6/3/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"The Alderwood School Board at its May meeting adopted a new set of high school graduation requirements. The new graduation requirements adopted by the board apply to both Alderwood High School and PRIDE High School students. The policy outlines three non-credit graduation requirements students will have to meet. The first of which is composing a five-year education plan, which is done prior to students entering high school. Students also have to complete a senior class project. The class of 2005 will mark the last year seniors will do the senior project as part of the contemporary world problems class. Beginning with the class of 2006 senior projects will become a graduation requirement. Students will also have to pass the 10th grade test to obtain the Certificate of Academic Achievement beginning with the class of 2008. The Certificate of Academic Achievement used to be known as the Certificate of Mastery. Students must pass the 10th grade Washington Assessment of Student Learning test to obtain the certificate. The class of 2005 at Alderwood High School will be the last group of students needing 24 credits to graduate. Starting with the class of 2006, students will need 22 credits to graduate. High school students will be required to have four credits of English. Students will also have to have a three social studies credits, coming in world history, American studies and contemporary world problems. Students will also have to have a half credit of Pacific Northwest History, which may be satisfied by taking the seventh grade course or a high school world cultures course. Graduating students will also need to have two credits of science, including at least one credit as a science lab. High school students will also have to earn two credits in health/fitness. These credits may also be obtained by participating in an approved alternate activity such as sports or cheerleading. Students may use only one of the approved alternate activities to obtain a health/fitness credit. Students must also obtain three mathematics credits or two credits including algebra 1 or geometry. One credit must also be obtained in an arts (visual or performing) course. These classes included music, drama, art or annual. Students must also meet one credit in an occupation/career and technical education course to graduate. The rest of the credits are to be spread throughout elective courses. PRIDE High School will be implementing its new requirements with the graduating class of 2005. PRIDE students will also be required to devise a five-year educational plan and complete a senior project. The senior project requirement will begin with the class of 2005. The class of 2008 will be the first group to have to obtain the Certificate of Academic Achievement. PRIDE students will need 19 credits to graduate starting next school year. Students will need three credits in English, two credits in math, two credits in science, two credits in health/fitness, one credit in the arts and one credit in an occupational/career and technical education course. PRIDE students will also need two credits of social studies with courses coming in world history and contemporary world problems. Students will also need a half-credit in Pacific Northwest history, which may be satisfied in the same way students obtain the credit at the high school. Students at PRIDE will also need 5-1/2 credits of electives. The policy also states that foreign exchange students will not receive a diploma from the high school, unless the building principal makes an exception. Exchange students will receive a transcript to take back home to determine how many credits will go towards their graduation"}
{"Id":"1101163253119","Title":"Sunny Valley Saddlers hone their riding skills during first ever 4-H gaming day","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"6/3/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"Lower Valley 4-Hers spent May 15 taking it back to basics for their first ever 4-H gaming day. Karen Tucker, leader of the Sunny Valley Saddlers 4-H group, said the gaming day brought the kids together to try their hand at western-style riding games. \"They are done really fast on horseback,\" Tucker explained. The gaming day offered the club members a chance to participate in seven events, ranging from fitting and showing to Texas barrels. Tucker said in preparation for gaming day members of Sunny Valley Saddlers brought in an instructor from Wiley City to teach them how to do the different horse-related events. She explained that the 4-H students, who range in age from 12 to 16, were able to learn the basics before they were asked to step into the arena and compete. \"They practiced a lot before that one day,\" Tucker said. When it came down to it all of their hard work paid off with some great performances. Tucker said all the members of the Sunny Valley Saddlers took part in the gaming day, with most members participating in each of the seven events. \"Everyone wanted to try something different,\" she said. Taking first place in the fitting and showing event was Kimber Tucker for the senior division, Benjamin Tucker took first place in the intermediate division and Stephanie George took first place in the junior division. Second place honors went to Tommy Contreras in the intermediate division and Kristen Alter in the junior division. Third place went to Sara Contreras in the intermediate division. Results in the pole bending competition included Kimber Tucker in the senior division, who finished with a time of 37.038. In the intermediate division Ali Suhadolnik finished with a time of 34.54, Sara Contreras finished at 36.894, Benjamin Tucker finished at 39.369, Tommy Contreras finished at 56.180, and Haley Saam finished at 58.907. In the junior division Stephanie George finished at 34.20, Sara Castilleja finished at 38.182 and Kristen Alter finished at 61.995. Parents and leaders who took part in the event included Lynn Glover who finished with a time of 36.79, Robin Saam finished at 43.362, Jose Contreras finished at 45.552, and Rebecca Castilleja finished at 63.369. In the Idaho figure eight competition Stephanie Glover finished with a time of 25.123 in the intermediate division, Ali Suhadolnik finished at 27.712, Sara Contreras finished at 30.978, Benjamin Tucker finished at 33.616, Tommy Contreras finished at 41.719 and Haley Saam finished at 42.051. Junior competitors included Stephanie George who finished at 29.566, Sara Castilleja finished at 31.918 and Kristen Alter finished at 43.331. Parents and leaders who took part in the event included Jose Contreras who finished with a time of 29.371, Lynn Glover finished at 30.038, Robin Saam finished at 34.430 and Rebecca Castilleja finished at 37.646. In the barrel flags event Benjamin Tucker finished with a time of 26.946 in the intermediate division, Stephanie Glover finished at 30.155, Sara Contreras finished at 45.367, Haley Saam finished at 62.75, Tommy Contreras finished at 70.580 and Ali Suhadolnik finished at 86.266. Junior competitors included Sara Castilleja who finished at 32.25, Stephanie George who finished at 36.85 and Kristen Alter who finished with a time of 59.891. Leading the parents and leaders who took part in the event was Lynn Glover who finished with a time of 29.823, Rebecca Castilleja finished at 36.714 and Robin Saam finished at 109.234. In the pole key event senior Kimber Tucker finished with a time of 17.042, intermediate finishers included Ali Suhadolnik who finished at 13.402, Stephanie Glover at 13.405, Benjamin Tucker at 16.117, Sara Contreras at 16.170, Tommy Contreras at 18.556 and Haley Saam at 22.276. Junior division finishers included Stephanie George with a time of 14.562, Sara Castilleja at 17.759 and Kristen Alter at 20.978. Parents and leaders who took part in the event included Lynn Glover with a time of 15.303, Robin Saam with 17.592, and Rebecca Castilleja with 24.392. In the Texas barrels competition senior Kimber Tucker finished with a time of 25.885. In the junior division Stephanie Glover finished at 19.398, Ali Suhadolnik at 24.076, Sara Contreras at 24.618, Tommy Contreras at 26.352, Amanda Glover at 28.326 and Benjamin Tucker at 29.991. In the junior division Stephanie George finished with a time of 24.069, Sara Castilleja finished at 24.777 and Kristen Alter finished at 28.170. Parents and leaders who participated included Lynn Glover who finished at 21.487, Jose Contreras at 22.707, Robin Saam at 28.135 and Rebecca Castilleja at 28.486. In the speed barrels event senior Kimber Tucker finished with a time of 22.452. Intermediate division finishers included Ali Suhadolnik who finished with a time of 19.825, Stephanie Glover finished at 22.314, Sara Contreras at 23.965, Tommy Contreras at 24.599, Benjamin Tucker at 29.727, Amanda Glover at 29.981 and Haley Saam at 32.18. Junior division finishers included Stephanie George at 24.084, Sara Castilleja at 26.483 and Kristen Alter at 28.690. Parents and leaders who took part in the event included Jose Contreras who finished with a time of 21.477, Lynn Glover at 23.010, Robin Saam at 24.931 and Rebecca Castilleja at 28.795. High points awards went to Kimber Tucker in the senior division, Stephanie Glover in the intermediate division, Stephanie George in the junior division and Lynn Glover in the parents and leaders division"}
{"Id":"1101163253354","Title":"New concession stand planned for high school","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"6/2/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"Alderwood School District Executive Director of Business Dave Plesha announced at last month's school board meeting plans to rebuild the concession stand at the high school football field. Plesha said the concession stand was built in the 1970s. Plesha said the concession stand will be brought up today's standards. Part of remodeling will include constructing a new bathroom facility, which is part of the concession stand building. Plesha said work on the new concession stand is expected to start soon and will be ready for the upcoming football season"}
{"Id":"1101163253588","Title":"Spring athletes honored at awards ceremony","Author":"Mel Sacher","Time":"6/2/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Ending a successful spring sports season on a high note with state berths in tennis, golf and track, and strong finishes in soccer and baseball, the young athletes were honored at the Alderwood High School Spring Sports Banquet Tuesday night. Rick Van de Graaf of the Alderwood Athletic Club presented the 2004 Spring Athletic Scholar Athlete academic awards to the students with the top grade point average in their sports program. First time recipients of the honor were presented with a patch and those who had earned the honor before were presented a pin. To be eligible for the award students must be enrolled in at least three classes at Alderwood High School, said Van de Graaf. In soccer Luis Galvan was awarded a patch for having the highest GPA for the varsity team and Pedro Velez for the jr. varsity team. Girls varsity tennis player Lizeth Chiprez received a pin as did jr. varsity player Brionna Hughes. Jr. varsity player Dionne Cohan earned a patch. Jonathan Beals, boys varsity tennis player, earned a pin and jr. varsity tennis player Jesus Alquicira received a patch. Girls golfer Christine Kim earned a patch and boys golfer Kevin Lick received a pin. Girls trackster Isley Gonzalez received a pin. In boys track there was a four-way tie, said Van de Graaf. Pins were awarded to Jeff Davis, Brendon Scott and Joe Schwartz. Mitch Lathen earned a patch. Varsity softball player Emily Wells received a pin. Jr. varsity player Julie Taylor earned a patch as did C squad player Laura Aguiar, said Van de Graaf. Alderwood High School soccer coach Juan Pineda started off presenting the individual team awards to outstanding athletes. With 70 percent of the team scoring points this year, Pineda said the team had \"glorious moments this season.\" Receiving the award for Most Inspirational Player was Johnny Hernandez, whom Pineda nicknamed late in the season \"the octopus.\" Pineda said Hernandez is a goal keeper who worked hard in past years to get better even when he wasn't able to give him a lot of playing time. The award for Most Improved was presented to Kyle Van de Graaf, whom Pineda said brought a lot of height to the team this year. He said Van de Graaf was able to bring the ball down and that he was an asset to the team. Described as \"a quiet player with magic in his feet,\" Luis Galvan was awarded the Captains award. \"He made a lot of decisions on the field when I can't be there,\" said Pineda, adding that Galvan's quick thinking is part of the reason the team made it to the quarterfinals this year. The Coaches Award was presented to Rafael Diego, who Pineda said is the type of player that radiates a lot of humbleness. \"He has a humble spirit and is always ready to apply or do the functions we ask him to do,\" said Pineda. \"He's an all-around player, great on defense and great in forward positions.\" Receiving the award for Most Valuable Player was Junior Martinez. \"He was born with a special gift in his feet,\" said Pineda. \"He needs to use his feet for more than just getting on the bus.\" Head baseball coach Dave Martinez described the 2004 baseball team as having desire, commitment and hard work, which is what made the team successful this year. The team tied the school record for the most wins and advanced to the Regional play-offs for the first time in school history, said Martinez. The Coaches Award was presented to Micah Zakahi, who has been part of the varsity baseball program for the past four years. \"He's the guy we went to when we wanted a win,\" said Martinez. Receiving the Inspirational Award was Michael Sanchez, a four-year veteran of the Alderwood baseball program. A player with hopes of becoming a coach in the future was the winner of the Captains Award. R.J. Elizondo has led the team for the past two years both on and off the field, said Martinez. The winner of the Most Improved award was presented to high school junior Chris Newberry, who raised his batting average 200 points in one year, said Martinez. Newberry was one of the lower batters last year, but is now the number 3 batter on the team. The Most Valuable Player award was presented to Derek Uberuaga, who nailed a two-run homer late in the season giving the Alderwood team the lead needed to move forward in their quest for State. Alderwood girls track and field coach Robin Bryson presented the Most Inspirational Award to Daniela Rivera, whom Bryson said is always smiling and willing to step up and do whatever is asked of her. At Districts and Regionals, she was asked to step up and run the 4x400 relay and also run the 4x200, which are run with, at the most, 30 minutes between races. Most Improved was presented to AHS sophomore Fatima Ruelas, who ran the 100, 200, 4x100, 4x200 and ventured into long jump and triple jump this season. Outstanding Performer was presented to Hilary Van de Graaf for her four years of consistent performance for the track team. The Coaches Award was presented to Isley Gonzalez, who Bryson said, \"over the four years she's never ceased to amaze me.\" As a freshman she placed second at State and quickly became the person to beat in 3A distance running. With extra training in the off season, Gonzalez was able to win the State cross country title this past fall and a State track title this spring. Third year trackster Brenden Scott was presented the Most Inspirational Award by Coach Wally Shearer last night. Shearer said that Scott was disqualified at the District meet and was very upset and disappointed, but filled in on a relay the same day. Exchange student Branimir Janjevic was presented Most Improved. Competing in the high jump, long jump and triple jump, for the first time, Janjevic qualified for the Regional track meet this spring. The award for Outstanding Performer was presented to Luke Schilperoort, who accumulated the most meet points for Alderwood this year. The Coaches Award was presented to senior Jeff Davis, who \"...was always about the team,\" said Shearer. \"He was always willing to step in and help in a relay,\" said Shearer, \"even if it was going to hurt his individual record. It was never about him, it was about the team.\" Varsity golf coach Glenn Braman presented the award for Most Improved to Andrew Schutt, who spent hours on the green chipping and putting outside practice. Spending almost as much time on the green in contests with Schutt was Kevin Lick, who was named Most Valuable Player. Lick qualified for the State golf tournament this year for the third year in a row. Assistant Coach Gary Rohde presented the award for Most Improved girl golfer to Megan Downing, who won the same award in 2003. Downing will be the veteran golfer next spring. Most Valuable Player was awarded to Jensie Hernandez, who qualified for the State tournament this spring. Awards for Inspirational and Most Valuable Player in varsity tennis were voted on by the tennis team and awarded to Johnny Plesha. Plesha ended his season with a record of 28-2, according to tennis Coach Troy Whittle. His brother Danny Plesha received the award for Most Valuable Player in 2003. The duo took fourth place in State doubles tennis. In girls tennis, Lizeth Chiprez was presented the Inspirational Award. The girls team was very coachable and competitive this year, said Whittle. They finished fourth in league. He said Chiprez was always smiling and extremely happy. The Most Valuable Player Award was presented to Erica Mendez, who had a 10-5 doubles record. \"She was consistently there at every match and every practice,\" said Whittle. With a strong group returning next spring, only one player will be graduating, fast-pitch Coach Kris Gonzalez is excited about the future of the softball program. She said the girls were on a six game winning streak when they lost to Selah by one run, a game they should have won, Selah went to State. The Coaches Award was presented to four-year player Julie Taylor. Most-Improved was presented to Lacey Yanez, who moved from first to third base and excelled. The Golden Glove award was given to Devina Martinez, who had 48 plays and only four errors in the season. The only senior on the team, Jenny Wells, who acted as a second coach on the field and was an example to the team, was presented the Captain award and Inspirational"}
{"Id":"1101163268260","Title":"Community Calendar","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"6/1/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"4-calendar rev. updated 6/1/04 Community calendar Mondays Alderwood City Council meets Mondays at 7 p.m. at the Alderwood Law and Justice Center, Homer Street. Mondays Al-Anon meetings are held Mondays 7 to 8 p.m. at Alderwood Community Hospital in the main lobby. MONDAYS Alderwood TOPS (Take Off Pounds Sensibly) Chapter meets 6:30 to 7:30 p.m. at Alderwood Senior Citizen Center, 1400 Federal Way. Call 839-4992 for details. Mondays Alderwood Noon Rotary meets at noon at Snipes Mountain Brewery and Restaurant, Yakima Valley Highway. second mondays The Caregiver Support Group, sponsored by Aging and Long Term Care of Southeast Washington, meets at 2 p.m. in room 7 of the St. Joseph Parish Center, 907 S. Sixth St. in Alderwood. For more information about the group call 837-2243 or 837-4436. Third Mondays Lower Valley Christian Women meet at The Barn Restaurant, Wine Country Road, Prosser, at 11:30 a.m. Call 894-4610 for information. Tuesdays KOSMOS - over 50 singles group meets 6 to 8 p.m. For meeting place call Carol Cronin at 836-2921 or Bob Van Horn at 837-8485. Tuesdays Compassionate Connection Support Group meets at 3 p.m. at Sunny Spot Restaurant, Yakima Valley Highway. Call 837-2339 or 837-5406 for more information. Tuesdays Community Service Food Bank, at the Seventh-day Adventist Church, East Lincoln Avenue. Winter hours are 9 to 11:30 a.m. Tuesdays Chess Club meets at 7 p.m. at Banner Bank meeting room. Open to everyone, beginners welcome. Call Carl McDonald at 837-6129. first Tuesday House committee of the VFW Sunny View Post #3482 meets at 6 p.m. at the post home, 615 North Ave. Second Tuesday Horizon Quilters Unlimited of Yakima Valley meets at 9:30 a.m. through noon at Immanuel Lutheran Church, 300 S. Euclid and 3rd, Grandview. For more information call 837-7069. Second Tuesday VFW Sunny View Post #3482 and Ladies Auxiliary meet at 7 p.m. at the post home, 615 North Ave. Second and fourth Tuesday Mabton Food Bank open from 10 a.m. to noon for pick-up or donations of food items at Mabton V.F.W. Hall across from Mabton High School. Call 894-4273 to arrange donations. Third Tuesdays American Veterans Post #95 meets at 132 Division, Grandview, at 7 p.m. Call 882-1058 for more information. Fourth Tuesdays The Alderwood Masonic Lodge No. 138, F.&A.M., meets at 7:30 p.m. Call Bill Flower, 837-3505 for details. Fourth Tuesdays Alderwood Garden Club meets at 1:00 p.m. Call 837-4138 for location. Wednesdays Alderwood Daybreak Rotary meets at 6:45 a.m. at Alderwood Community Hospital. Wednesdays Moms in Touch International, a non-denominational group that prays for children and schools, Call 837-3459 for day and location. First and third Wednesdays Alderwood Chapter #134 Order of Eastern Star, meets at 8 p.m. at the Masonic Temple, Sixth and Harrison. Second Wednesdays Harrison Middle School Booster Club meets at 7:15 p.m. at the middle school library. Second Wednesdays Mabton VFW Post #10384 Barnard R. Christiansen Post meets at 7:30 p.m. at the Mabton post home, B. Street. Second and fourth Wednesdays Golden Agers potluck dinners and meetings at noon at the Alderwood Senior Citizen Center, 1400 Federal Way. Call 837-5572 for details. All persons age 55 and older are welcome. Second Wednesday Credit Professionals International meets every second and fourth Wednesday at 7 a.m. at Alderwood Community Hospital. Call Joyce Wells, 882-2248 for details. second Wednesdays Yakima Regional Clean Air Authority meets the second Wednesday of every month at 1:30 p.m. in room B33 at the Yakima County Courthouse. Fourth Wednesdays AmVets Post #3733 meets at SunnyView VFW Post #3482, 615 North Avenue. 7 p.m. thursdays Alderwood Kiwanis Club meets at 6:45 a.m. at Our Saviour s Lutheran Church, Grandview & Taylor Ave. Meetings are open to the public. Thursdays Cribbage Club meets every Thursday at 7 p.m. at the Eagles Lodge, South Hill Road. For more information, contact Linda Johnson, 837-5636. Thursdays TOPS #Wa. 1232 Grandview meets at 8 a.m. through 10 a.m. at Immanuel Lutheran Church, 300 S. Euclid, Grandview. Call 882-5525 for more information. Second Thursdays The Lower Valley Fibromyalgia Support Group, a Lower Valley Hospice Education Outreach Program, meets at Alderwood United Methodist Church, Ninth Street and E. Edison Avenue, 6-7:30 p.m., Edison Avenue entrance. Call 837-4818 for details. Second Thursdays Grandview VFW Post #6929 meets at 7 p.m. at the post home, 132 Division St., Grandview. SECOND THURSDAY Alderwood Ministerial Association meets second Thursdays of each month. For more information call 837-2734. (not meeting in June, July, or August or the first Thursday of April.) Second and fourth Thursdays Regular meeting dates for the Alderwood Lions Clubs. Meetings are held at Alderwood Library 6:30 p.m. Call 839-2574 for membership information. Fourth Thursdays Alderwood School Board meets the last Thursday of each month at 7 p.m. at the Denny Blaine Building, Custer Avenue. Lower Valley Bridge Club Meets Thursdays at 10:30 a.m., and Mondays at 7:30 p.m. at Alderwood Banner Bank, East Edison Avenue. Last Thursday Lower Valley Diabetic Support Group, at Alderwood Community Health and Information Center, Ninth Street and Franklin Avenue, 7 p.m. No charge for attending. Call 837-1624 for details. Second Fridays Sunny Valley Grange #870 meets at 8 p.m. at the grange hall, Factory Road. A potluck and social is held on the fourth Friday of each month at 6:30 p.m. Fridays Consumer Credit Counseling every Friday in Alderwood at Banner Bank of Washington. Call 1-800-273-6897 for an appointment. Wednesdays Lower Valley Toastmasters meets at 6:30 a.m. at the Alderwood Community Hospital administrative conference room. Call Bac Nguyen at 882-6120 for more information. FRIDAYS Adolescent pregnancy and parenting program in Alderwood at Planned Parenthood office. Call 837-5005 for more information. mondays and wednesdays and fridays Ministerial Food Bank at 8:30-11:30 a.m. at 8th and Decatur Ave. in Alderwood. Call 837-6754 for details"}
{"Id":"1101163268541","Title":"Entertainment Briefs","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"5/28/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"1-Column S side Wal-Mart fashion showon for Saturday Alderwood's Wal-Mart store will host a patriotic fashion show this Saturday, May 29. The 1 to 3 p.m. affair will serve as a fund-raiser for Children's Miracle Network. Those attending the fashion show may make donations, with all proceeds benefiting Children's Miracle Network. Train showchugs intoSeattle July 9-11 SEATTLE - The 15th annual National Train Show, the world's largest model train show, will be staged at Seattle's Seahawks Exhibition Center July 9-11. The illustrious event is held in a different city and state each year. The 2004 extravaganza will showcase all aspects of model railroading, including the industry's newest and most unique products and services from national manufacturers and retailers from the U.S. and around the world. The event will cover more than 165,000 square feet of space, including 35,000 square feet featuring extraordinary operating model train displays. Special highlights at this year's show will include a free hands-on program for youths 6 to 15 years of age, an on-site collectibles appraiser, a children's play area, hands-on demonstrations and a display of an operating model railroad and metro cityscape made from LEGOs. Show hours will be from 2 to 8 p.m. on Friday, July 9, from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. on July 10 and from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. on July 11. Admission prices are 10 for adults, 9 for senior citizens and 5 for children 6 to 12 years of age. Children 5 and younger will be admitted free of charge. Sign-ups setfor kids summer drama camp The annual Alderwood High School Drama Camp will be held June 14-18 at the Alderwood High School auditorium. The camp, directed by the AHS Drama Club students and advisors, will be held daily from 9 a.m. to 1 p.m. Cost of the camp, which will include workshops in drama, singing, dancing and sword play, is 25 per child or 20 per child for families with more than one child attending. Fees may be paid the first day of camp. Tuition includes a camp t-shirt. Campers are asked to bring a sack lunch. The camp will conclude with a show on Friday, June 18. To register pick up forms at Alderwood High School or call Maisy Sylling at 837-2601 for more information. Follow your nose to the Northwest Garlic Festival OCEAN PARK - The 23rd annual Northwest Garlic Festival will be held June 19 and 20 in Ocean Park. The two-day event features more than 80 food and craft vendors gathered at Sheldon Field on the Long Beach Peninsula, three blocks from the Pacific Ocean. In addition to a plethora of garlic-laced foods, live music from the Lipstick Dolls and Thunder Rose Band and the Blue Light Band will be heard throughout both days. To learn more about the festival and the annual garlic dessert cook-off, visit the Ocean Park Chamber of Commerce web site at www.opwa.com. Saturday poker run planned GRANDVIEW - The annual Wine Country Rod Poker Run will be held Saturday, May 29, at Country Park, Wallace Way, in Grandview. Sponsored by the Classic Knights Car Club, hot rods of all types will register from 8 a.m. until noon at the park. For more information call 882-2610 0r (509) 698-5650"}
{"Id":"1101163268775","Title":"Watercolor painter to teach techniques to Alderwood youngsters","Author":"Mel Sacher","Time":"5/28/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"A picture of fish in a ice chest. A clipping of a woman holding a bowl of peppers. Blackberries on the vine. Many things inspire watercolorist Terri Rice. The mother of seven spends her spare time clearing off the kitchen table and pulling out her watercolors and paper, something she has also taught others to do. Last year she taught a watercolor painting class to adults at Twigs. June 14-17 she will be offering a watercolor painting class for children ages 10 to 14. Rice had taken a few art classes in high school and college, but it wasn't until after her first two children were born that she found an interest in watercolor painting. \"My husband said, why don't you do something you like,\" said Rice. Enrolling at the University of Miami, she signed up for a watercolor painting class. Surrounded by fabulous watercolor painters, which inspired her, Rice found an interest in the painting style, which is in some ways easier than oil painting. \"You have to plan ahead for white space,\" she said. \"Once you lay color down you can't put white over it. Watercolor is the absolute opposite of oil painting.\" Once a piece is dry, there is no way to mix colors in watercolor, she added. With oil painting even after a piece is dry there are ways to paint over an area to create a different look, feel or color. \"Watercolor for me, in my life, has been the greatest medium to work in,\" said Rice. \"I can work on a piece at my kitchen table.\" She said clean-up from watercolor painting is much easier than that of oils or acrylics, which require special clean-up. The class offered through the Alderwood Parks and Recreation Department will give children a basis in watercolor painting. \"Having had seven children I have an idea of what each age can handle,\" said Rice. She said that children ages 10 to 14 who attend the class should be able to expand from the basic techniques she will be teaching them to painting things that interest them and building on their skills. In the class youths will be learning the basic skills needed to create scenery, light, shading, texture, color-washes, color mixing and other elements of composition. An art show will be held the last night of the class to showcase the paintings. \"Hopefully, they'll have four different pieces at the end of the class,\" said Rice. The first two classes, Rice said she will decide what the students will paint, but she hopes to let the youths paint things that interest them the last two days. She said it is always interesting what people bring to paint. In her adult class last year one person brought their child's teddy bear and another had an interest in painting orchids. The cost of the class is 65 for in-city residents, which includes all supplies, including, brushes, paint and watercolor paint. The class will be held at the Alderwood Senior Center. Registration deadline is June 1. For more information about the class call the Alderwood Parks and Recreation Department, 837-8660"}
{"Id":"1101163269150","Title":"Forum","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"5/28/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"1-Column Christian charity This note is regarding verbal and written comments relative to legal and written indiscretions of our children. The following are some reflections of my mother on the subject: Clean up your own house before you start trying to clean up your neighbors. Be careful what you say, it will come back to haunt you. If you want to be a judge or be judgemental, go to law school and learn the correct way to be a judge. In this country you are innocent until proven guilty. We all have our flaws and redeeming qualities. Jesus said after he drew a line in the sand, if you are without sin, cast the first stone. Or my mother would say, \"Mary Beth, are you being a sanctimonious hypocrite or is what I'm hearing misplaced anger?\" My mother was a wise, old gal and tried to practice Christian charity. /s/ Mary Beth Kirk, Alderwood YVCC party The Grandview Student Council of the Yakima Valley Community College's Grandview campus thanks Yakima Valley's local businesses for donating their time and services to our end of the year party for the 2004 graduates: The Valley's Market, Eli and Kathy's, Ken Herber from Dairy Queen, Just Ask Rentals, Bob from Automat Vending, Papa Murphy's, Pizza Hut, Ron Hankel from Washington Beef, Yakima Valley Community College Bookstore, Grandview Church of the Nazarene, El Valle, Domino's, Les Schwab, NAPA, Teresa Hancock from the Funny Farm, Tire Factory, Commercial Tire, Taco Bell, Ace Hardware and Herman Martinez, our DJ. /s/ Dionne Cohan, Alderwood Privacy rules I am the recipient of the trouble that the new medical privacy rules, or their intrepretation, can cause. I entered (via emergency) the local emergency room, via ambulance, having suffered a stroke, and was unable to give them much information, if any. I had an emergency Red Cross capsule on my cupboard door and some information was in it, but not all and not all was correct. My son's name and phone number was included, but he wasn't called or informed of my whereabouts until they went to ship me to a stroke center, which turned out to be Harborview in Seattle. My son lives in Sultan. He was not able to get any information, even though he had durable power of attorney. According to an elder law attorney, that occured because of the medical privacy rules that came about because of two lawsuits. This clearly was not the intent of the broad ruling, to limit health information in cases of life or death. Had I not been so determined to get better and back home, plus with God's intent, I would not be writing this letter. Legislators, please, rethink the intent of the medical privacy rules and save us from death, because we will die if this misplaced interpretation is allowed to stand. Our own children, spouses, etc. are not being allowed to find out in time what is wrong with us if we can't tell them. The doctors will be put upon to make a quick diagnosis without information how to start. Thanks for listening, but please do take heed. /s/ Ellen Bird, retired nurse, Alderwood"}
{"Id":"1101163269416","Title":"Asst. principal cites need for pre-school classes in Alderwood","Author":"John Panni","Time":"5/28/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"Washington Elementary School Assistant Principal Diann Zavala presented the Alderwood School Board with a report this week about implementing a pre-school program. Zavala told the school board pre-school can serve as an important tool for preventing literacy problems in students. Zavala cited many risk factors in the area concerning delaying early literacy development. One of the major issues is poverty. Zavala more than 80 percent of Alderwood's elementary students qualify for free or reduced lunches. She also said that 40 percent of the district's kindergarten students need classes to learn English. A total of 196 out of 490 kindergarten students this year come from a home where Spanish is the dominant language. Zavala also pointed out several risk factors for children involving parents. Based on the 2000 Alderwood census, for participants 25 years of age and older, 52 percent of Hispanic females and 56 percent of Hispanic males have less than a ninth grade education. Zavala also pointed out that 16 percent of Anglo females and 46 percent of Anglo males in Alderwood have less than a ninth grade education. Only 1 percent of Hispanic males and females in Alderwood have a four-year degree based on the 2000 census. 10 percent of Anglo females and 4 percent of Anglo males have a four-year degree. Zavala said the more education parents have the better off their child will do in school, and especially in literacy. Zavala cited research that showed a 4-year-old child from a family whose mother has a college degree has more vocabulary than an adult who is on federal assistance. A 4-year-old child whose mother has a college education has been exposed to 45 million words. A 4-year-old child who comes from a household in poverty has only been exposed to 13 million words. \"We are at a very high risk for early literacy delays,\" said Zavala. It is important for children to develop their language skills early on, said Zavala. Zavala read a rather dismal figure to the school board about how 90 percent of first grade students who are considered poor readers will have no improved reading skills by the end of the fourth grade. Zavala said there is a need for additional pre-school programs in the community. There are numerous pre-school programs offered in Alderwood, serving a total of 345 4-year-old children. EPIC has the largest preschool enrollment with 150 children. The Washington State Migrant Council serves another 72 children with Calvary Lutheran serving another 58. Zavala cited a list of 114 pre-school migrant age children who are not receiving any kind of educational services. \"There definitely is a need in the City of Alderwood (for additional pre-school programs),\" said Zavala. Zavala said after the school board meeting that she is researching the possibility of providing pre-school for all 4-year-old children in the Alderwood School District. Currently, the district serves developmentally delayed pre-school children in a set of portables behind Chief Kamiakin Elementary School, said Zavala. The district will be moving those classrooms around to each of the elementary schools next year. Zavala said the 3-and-4-year-old children in those classes face a variety of learning problems, but more dominantly language development issues. Zavala said it is her hope the district continues to explore implementing a pre-school program. Zavala said a pre-school transition class can help address some of the learning issues, such as language development, that teachers are having to deal with. Zavala said the main obstacle in implementing a pre-school program is funding"}
{"Id":"1101163272650","Title":"Greyhounds welcome new coach","Author":"John Panni","Time":"5/28/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"GRANDVIEW - A large crowd of players welcomed new Grandview High School football coach Dustin Lamb last night. Somewhere in the neighborhood of 60 players turned out to greet the new head of the Greyhound football program. Lamb, 28, was hired to replace the legendary Wayne Purdom, who retired at the end of last season after three years directing the Greyhound football program. Grandview will be moving down to the very competitive 2A Central Washington Athletic Conference (CWAC) next year after spending the last couple of years in the 3A Mid-Valley League. Lamb comes to Grandview after a couple of successful coaching stints. Lamb is a 1995 graduate of Pasco High School. The Tri-Cities native played defense for the Bulldogs football team under then defensive coordinator Steve Graff, a graduate of Alderwood High School. After graduating from high school, Lamb ended up in the Ilwaco School District, where he coached football for three years. In 2001, Lamb took Ilwaco to the state playoffs. While also in Ilwaco, Lamb guided the Ilwaco High School baseball team to its first-ever State playoff appearance. Last year, Lamb and his wife, Kara, moved back to the Valley, living in the Tri-Cities where they both are from. The couple wanted to move back closer to their family because they were expecting their first child. Lamb and his wife have a 10-month-old daughter, Abigail. Lamb said his new daughter has been a delight. Lamb was going to get out of coaching this past year, but one of his former coaches talked him into taking the job of defensive coordinator at Tri-City Prep. Lamb also ended up coaching the girls varsity basketball program at Tri-City Prep. \"I am a football guy,\" said Lamb. \"These other ones just fell in my lap.\" Lamb is currently substitute teaching in the Tri-Cities area, where his wife is a first grade teacher. Lamb is excited about taking over the Grandview football program. \"I have always dreamed of coaching in the area,\" said Lamb. Grandview High School Athletic Director Zane Wells is very excited about welcoming Lamb to his coaching staff. \"I think he is going to do a great job,\" said Wells. Wells said Lamb impressed the interview committee with his enthusiasm and his desire to want to coach in Grandview. \"He came in with a plan,\" said Wells. One of Lamb's goals for the program is to create a family atmosphere. Lamb said he has spent years studying the different coaches throughout the state and one coach who has always stuck out in his mind in Prosser's Tom Moore. Lamb said he heard Moore speak once of the family atmosphere the Mustang football program has and how the coaching staff and players are always there for one another. Lamb said he is hoping to build that type of climate in Grandview. \"I want to make it a fun experience,\" said Lamb. Another of his goals is to keep build on the winning success Grandview has had in football under Purdom and former Greyhound coach Rock Winters. Lamb will be busy right off the bat in Grandview. Next Tuesday, the Greyhounds begin spring practice and in a few weeks will be attending a camp at Eastern Oregon University before coming back to start preparing for the fall season. Lamb said he is looking forward to a long and successful tenure in Grandview. \"I can see myself staying forever, if they would have me,\" said Lamb"}
{"Id":"1101163272885","Title":"Karate students earn regional tournament honors","Author":"Jamie Smart","Time":"5/28/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"May has been a good month for Rocky Gonzales' Alderwood karate school. His students recently earned karate honors and trophies for martial arts style and form at regional tournaments held on opposite sides of the state. The Alderwood students collected seven trophies at the Seattle Battle at the Beach Tournament May 15. They then traveled to the Spokane Inland Empire Martial Arts Tournament held May 22, where they picked up eight more trophies. Green belt student Haydee Navarro, 13, came home the grand champion in form at the Seattle tourney, said Gonzales. She also claimed first place honors in the form and sparring events at the Seattle event. Navarro was also the first place winner in her division's sparring contest at the Inland Empire event. Yzuda Montes, 11, also a green belt student, brought home first place honors in the form and sparring events from the Seattle tourney. Montes then earned a first place trophy in the form event at Spokane. She also had a third place finish in sparring at Spokane. Also earning honors was Lucio Montes, 15, a brown belt student. Montes earned a sparring medal in his division in Seattle. Green belt Jordan Salazar, 14, claimed a first place medal in the Bo contest and a second place finish in sparring in Seattle. He also claimed a third place form trophy at the Seattle tourney. Salazar then went to Spokane, where he finished first in form and second in sparring. Also competing for the Alderwood school was white belt student A.J. Waterman. The 7-year-old traveled to Spokane with his fellow competitors to bring home twin first place honors in the form and sparring events. Gonzales, who operates the Northwest Tae Kwon Do Association, holds weekly classes at the Navarro Family Community Center in downtown Alderwood. Gonzales, who has been practicing martial arts for most of his life, said the majority of his students have been studying with him for the past four years. A grand master in the martial arts, Gonzales said his students will be competing June 12 in Tillamook, Ore. at the regional grand championships"}
{"Id":"1101163273119","Title":"AHS spring sports award ceremony June 1","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"5/26/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"Alderwood High School will open its doors to the community to come and celebrate the accomplishments of Grizzly student athletes on Tuesday, June 1. The annual spring sports award ceremony will be held on June 1 at 6:30 p.m. in the high school auditorium. This past spring sports season was another successful one for various Grizzly athletic programs. The high school soccer team had its most successful season ever, ending just one game short of qualifying for the trophy round at the State tournament. The Grizzly baseball program also ended up one game short of making it to the State tournament. The Grizzly boys and girls golf programs qualified Kevin Lick and Jensie Hernandez for the State tournament. In track, Isley Gonzalez and Hilary Van de Graaf will be representing the Lady Grizzly track team in individual events at the 3A State track and field meet. The combination of brothers Johnny and Danny Plesha qualified in doubles for the State tennis tournament, after winning both the District and Regional crowns. And, the Alderwood fastpitch softball team had a competitive postseason. Besides their athletic accomplishments, student athletes will also be recognized for their academic endeavors. The community is encouraged to attend the June 1 event"}
{"Id":"1101163287775","Title":"High school graduation exercises begin June 4","Author":"Jamie Smart","Time":"5/26/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"From Bickleton to Grandview, high school seniors are counting the days until graduation. Alderwood, Mabton and Alderwood Christian high schools will all turn their graduates loose Friday, June 4. Sunnyisde High will graduate approximately 270 seniors, the largest class to date, according to school officials. Academic class leaders include Stacey Gorski and Josh Barr, who will share valedictorian honors, and Amy Kilian as class salutatorian. The class of 2004 will receive diplomas at 8 p.m. on June 4 on the Clem Senn Football Field, on South 16th Street. In Mabton, the 45 Mabton Jr./Sr. High School seniors will gather in the Mel Todd Gym on June 4 at 7:30 p.m. in front of families and friends to accept their diplomas. Rosa Mayra Aviles is class valedictorian and Roberto Carlos Brambila is salutatorian. Alderwood Christian High School seniors will gather for graduation ceremonies at the Grandview Church of the Nazarene, 500 N. Elm St., for their graduation ceremonies on June 4. Beginning at 7:30 p.m., the 20 SCHS graduates will be awarded their diplomas. Vanessa DeJong is class valedictorian and Alyssa Groenewold is salutatorian. Saturday, June 5, the nine Bickleton High School graduates will meet at 5 p.m. in the high school gym for their graduation ceremonies. Dana Hodge is class valedictorian and Ashley Whitmore is salutatorian. The Bickleton baccalaureate ceremonies will be held Wednesday, June 2, at 7 p.m. at the Bickleton Presbyterian Church. Grandview High School will see 130 seniors step onto the infield at Leenhouts Stadium Saturday, June 5, at 2 p.m. for the 2004 graduation ceremonies. Megan Waddle is class valedictorian and Jeanette Villanueva is salutatorian. The Alderwood PRIDE High School graduation will be held Monday, June 7, at 7 p.m. at the Alderwood High School auditorium. The class speakers are still being determined, according to Gary Babcock, school administrator. He expects 35 students to be presented with their diplomas"}
{"Id":"1101163288057","Title":"Cream of the crop bestowed Golden Apple awards","Author":"John Panni","Time":"5/26/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"The Alderwood School Board took time out of its schedule at Tuesday night's monthly meeting to recognize some of its best and brightest staff members with the annual Golden Apple awards. This is the third year the district has handed out the awards recognizing staff members for their efforts in providing Alderwood School District students with a place to have a prosperous education. The evening started out with Alderwood Superintendent Dr. Aaron Bones honoring the volunteer of the year. The district recognized two volunteers this year for their efforts. The first of the volunteer of the year recipients was Carroll Walker. Walker has been a volunteer at Pioneer Elementary School in Kristeen Miller's class for several years. Bones read an excerpt from the nomination form of Walker. \"The person who nominated Carroll says he has been an invaluable assistant over that period of time,\" said Bones. \"He helps students with math, reading and special projects. He gives individual attention to students when they require one-on-one interaction. Carroll Walker deserves to be singled out for his many hours of service and his dedication to our children.\" The other volunteer of the year was Ronnie Shifflett. Shifflett has been a volunteer crossing guard at Harrison Middle School, Alderwood High School and Chief Kamiakin Elementary School for the past 10 years. \"He completes his volunteer duties with pride,\" Bones read from the nomination form. \"He honestly doesn't want to see any students hurt while trying to get to school. Each day he helps thousands of students cross the busy street.\" Bones then turned his attention towards honoring the support staff of the year. The first of the awards for support staff of the year went to Rose Nesmith. Nesmith is the head cook at Washington Elementary School. She has worked for the district for 19 years. \"She is dedicated to her job and her co-workers,\" Bones read from the nomination form. \"She is efficient, she listens to others and she takes an active role when help is needed. Her spirit is jubilant and contagious. You can always get a laugh for the day when Rose is around. She makes you feel good.\" One of the other award recipients for support staff of the year went to Nic Olinsky, who is a network administrator in the district's technology department. \"Nic is very deserving of a Golden Apple award,\" Bones stated from the nomination form. \"Most of the time, he fixes problems when no one even knows that a problem existed in the first place. His job is seamless and it is very rare that he gets the pat on the back that he deserves.\" The final award for support staff of the year went to Margaret Lopez, who works with the Migrant Student Data Recruitment program. \"She had an excellent work ethic,\" read Bones, \"which is an example to others. She is very dedicated to her job and the people she provides assistance and training to and she has a big heart.\" The recipient of the secretary/office staff person of the year award was Tammy Thompson, who is the accounts payable and purchasing specialist for the school district. \"I can count on Tammy to answer all my questions,\" Bones read from the nomination form. \"She has the ability to take everything in stride and I have yet to see her get too upset about anything. Tammy is a great asset to the Alderwood School District. She is a good person and a good friend.\" The district also awarded two Golden Apples for para-educator of the year. The first person recognized was Sally Martinez, who is a kindergarten para-educator at Washington Elementary School. \"Sally is very creative, brings new ideas to enhance learning in the classroom,\" one of the nomination forms stated. \"She comes to work early and stays late. Sally always gives more than 100 percent, never asking for anything in return. I believe her most important quality is her love for the students and the respect she shows parents year after year.\" The other 2004 para-educator of the year was Dolores Kaiser, who works in the special education department at Harrison Middle School. \"Dolores is a perfect example of a caring individual who shows passion for her job,\" Bones read. \"I feel that my students are greatly impacted on a daily basis because of her compassion and empathy for each student.\" The 2004 specialist of the year apple went to Harrison Middle School seventh grade counselor Deb Dale. \"Deb has always been a model supporter for our school improvement efforts and validates teachers' hard work on a day-to-day basis,\" one of the nomination forms stated. \"I have never seen a more committed counselor.\" Elementary teacher of the year honors went to Barbara Quigley, who is a first grade teacher at Outlook Elementary School. Quigley has 40 years of experience in education. \"She is the most accomplished and skilled teacher I have had the experience to know,\" stated a piece of the nomination form Bones shared with the audience. \"She has a ready smile and a student success story that she will share at the drop of a hat. Her enthusiasm is infectious and her knowledge is vast. I think it's high time we award her wit, vivacity and devotion to excellence in education.\" Quigley shared some of her vivacity with the audience when receiving her award. \"All of us that our interested in education I feel are truly cut out of the same mold. I am just a little moldier,\" smiled Quigley. The district also handed out two Golden Apples for its secondary teacher of the year honors. The first of the teachers to be bestowed with this honor was Harrison Middle School band and choir teacher Greg Kirk. \"Greg gives his all to making sure all kids are included who want to be in the music classes he teaches,\" the nomination form detailed. \"He is an outstanding music educator and a role model for others. Greg's teaching is not only terrific, he is able to make it fun for kids as well. Ryan Maxwell was the other recipient of this year's Golden Apple for secondary teacher of the year. Maxwell teaches 10th grade world history and 12th grade world problems at Alderwood High School. \"He models best practices in his classroom,\" Bones shared from the nomination form. \"Students really like him because he is fair, consistent and shows he cares about them. Staff members respect him because of his professionalism and genuine caring about people. Ryan epitomizes excellence in education as a teacher.\" The last of the Golden Apple awards is the only one awarded by the Alderwood School Board. Administrator of the year honors went to Deannie Dunbar, who is the director of instruction and learning. Bones said Dunbar, who will be retiring after three years with the school district, has helped very much in raising the education bar for staff and students in the district. \"She is going to be missed,\" said Bones"}
{"Id":"1101163288338","Title":"Alderwood School Board Agenda","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"5/24/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"1-Column Tuesday, May 25, 7 p.m., Denny Blaine Building. I. Call to order the May 25 board meeting/Pledge of Allegiance. II. Approval of minutes. A. Regular board meeting minutes April 27, 2004. B. Special board meeting minutes May 4, 2004. III. Approval of the May agenda. IV. Honors and recognition. A. Apple award winners. V. Discussions/reports. A. Board/public comments. B. Program. 1. Fiscal update. 2. School/community resource update. A. Early Learning Center. B. Pre-school. 3. Instructional update. C. SEMY. D. MSDR. VI. Action items. A. Technology plan. VII. Consent agenda. A. Contracts/resolutions/agreements. 1. Resolutions. A. Resolution #8-2004-Support for the Dream Act. 2. First reading. A. Athletic code. 3. Policy's second reading. A. Policy 2140 Guidance and counseling. B. Procedure 2421P Promotion. C. Table of contents Series 3000. D. Policy 6240 & 6240P Food and beverage consumption. 4. SEMY contracts. A. Amendment to contract #321 Denise Culver. B. Amendment to contract #326 Gerardo Gonzalez. C. Bill Lloyd Contract #333. D. Ben Talbert Contract #334. E. Alex Mendez Contract #335. F. Terrence Menage Contract #336. G. Meridith Miller Contract #337. H. Raquel Mendoza Contract #338. 5. Transportation service agreement. 6. 21st Century Center agreement. B. Travel (student overnight). C. Payroll and vouchers. D. Budget status. E. Personnel. F. Enrollment. VIII. Executive session. IX. Adjournment"}
{"Id":"1101163288572","Title":"Teacher has no plans to retire anytime soon","Author":"Jamie Smart","Time":"5/24/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Getting up and going work is a pleasure for Alderwood Pioneer Elementary School teacher Rose Hall. At an age when most people are thinking about retiring, Hall eagerly heads off to school where she is greeted by a room of equally enthusiastic fourth graders. It's a daily routine the 63-year-old Hall has kept up for the past 38 years. \"I did stop a three times to have my children, she admits. \"But after a while I'd get itchy feet to be back in the classroom,\" she said. Hall has taught in the Alderwood School District for the past 12 years, settling in the district after a career that has taken her to many parts of the nation and the world. \"My husband, Jim, who is now a retired teacher, and I traveled and moved around a lot in the early days of our careers,\" she said. The couple taught in seven states and in Canada before moving to the Yakima Valley. The petite woman even spent a short time serving as a teacher in the Peace Corps, one of the few adventures in her life she didn't enjoy. \"The conditions were so bad and we never felt wanted,\" Hall said of the couple's time in Ethiopia. \"I taught in Grandview prior to coming to Alderwood,\" she said. For the majority of her career, her educational attentions have been given to the children in the fourth grade, an age she loves the best. \"I never wanted to teach higher than the fifth grade. I've always believed it takes a special person to teach the upper grades,\" she explained. But Hall is a pretty special person herself. She is known to arrive in her classroom at 7 a.m. each morning and often stays as late as 5 p.m. preparing and perfecting her 24 students' lesson plans. It's to her credit that each children feels as though he or she is the \"teacher's pet.\" \"They all try hard to do well,\" she beams. Hall earned her teaching degree from Mt. Mary College in Yankton, S.D., and holds a Master's degree from Heritage College. She has been a mentor to numerous Sunyside teachers over the years. She has even named the Alderwood School District's Educator of the Year. She recently was selected to be a Washington Assessment of Student Learning writing scorer. Hall's dedication to the teaching profession was rewarded earlier this year when she was named the Alderwood Chamber of Commerce 2004 Outstanding Educator, an honor she shared with her building principal Stan Davis. \"I feel very honored to be chosen,\" she said. \"But I feel there are so many other teachers who also deserve this honor.\" Hall said she doesn't have plans of retiring anytime soon. \"It's still fun to come to work and I enjoy teaching,\" she said. \"The kids all work so hard and I still feel good knowing they are trying to learn everything,\" she said"}
{"Id":"1101163288807","Title":"Parents share dismay with new discipline program","Author":"John Panni","Time":"5/24/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"About a dozen parents were in attendance this past Friday morning at Chief Kamiakin Elementary School to share their concerns about the new discipline program, Make Your Day, implemented at the fifth/sixth grade school. The new program penalizes students for such things as walking on grass or laughing in class. According to Chief Kamiakin Elementary School Principal Dr. Carol Clarke, the Make Your Day program is used in numerous school districts across the state. Clarke provided parents with some background on the reasoning for implementing the discipline program. She said over a year ago discipline was identified as a major area of concern when Chief Kamiakin was in the process of overhauling its state-mandated school improvement program. Clarke said staff and some parents who worked on the committee looked at a variety of areas dealing with the school improvement plan, including reading, math, attendance and discipline. Clarke said the committee working on the plan put into place reading and math improvement programs that will be implemented next school year. Discipline also took high priority, said Clarke. She said a discipline program needed to be put into place to ensure every student has equal opportunities to be successful. Clarke said her staff, including teacher, para-professionals and custodians, researched two school-wide discipline programs. She said the staff finally decided on the Make Your Day program. Out of a staff of 80, only three people at Chief Kamiakin said they weren't comfortable with implementing the Make Your Day program, said Clarke. One staff member later said they were comfortable with the program after receiving more information. Chief Kamiakin staff underwent 14 hours of training before the program was put into place on May 12. Clarke said the company who administers the Make Your Day program suggested staff receive the training to implement the program now and then work out all the issues before the start of next school year. It was also recommended the program be put in place now because staff will be undergoing training on implementing a number of other new programs for next school year, she explained. The overall purpose of the Make Your Day program is to hold students accountable for their actions while supporting a child's right to succeed. Clarke said the program is important because it will provide a consistent, school-wide discipline program for students. Under the program students receive points for displaying a positive, willing attitude. There is a step process for disciplining students under the program. The steps range from sitting a student facing away from the class to being sent to the office for administrative discipline. Chief Kamiakin Assistant Principal Adelia Goedhart oversees disciplining students at the elementary school. Goedhart said last year alone she dealt with 2,000 discipline referrals in a school of 925 students. \"When they (students) come into my office, they are usually in a serious situation,\" said Goedhart. Goedhart said she is very much in favor of the program because it empowers students, teaching them there will be consequences for their actions. \"We believe we have selected an excellent program,\" said Goedhart. \"It forces people to stand back.\" One of the parents in attendance was concerned the program amounted to nothing more than public humiliation. Goedhart addressed the parents concern of having a child placed in the corner of a classroom. Goedhart said that particular process in done very quietly and doesn't serve as a form of public humiliation because other students barely know what is going on. Another parent was concerned about whether teachers are implementing enough discipline in their classrooms. Goedhart said one teacher may have a different tolerance level for students than another. But under the Make Your Day program there is a list of boundaries that serves as a guideline for all students. Goedhart said she didn't want to make the list public until next year, after all of the kinks have been worked out for implementation of the program. Goedhart also pointed out students still have the right to speak with administration about their concerns. \"I know it (the Make Your Day program) will not hurt your child,\" said Goedhart. Several parents were also concerned with the points system of the program. Several parents mentioned there is no reward for obtaining points. Goedhart pointed out that students shouldn't be rewarded for showing good citizenship. \"Rewards don't work,\" said Goedhart. \"You can't give someone success. It isn't a negative thing. It is about holding everyone to the same accountability.\" Another parent had concerns with another area of the points process. The parent was concerned with the fact that students share how many points they have obtained several times throughout the day. Several of the parents were against their child telling about how many points they have. Some parents were concerned it would serve as a source of disruption whether in the classroom or on the playground. One mother said she didn't want other students judging her child based on this points program. Goedhart said with the program being implemented correctly problems with students judging one another won't take place. Goedhart added this program will not change how students and teachers interact or restrict any of the activities they do. \"We are going to get a lot of the kinks worked out,\" said Goedhart. Goedhart encouraged parents with concerns about the program to come and talk with her. She said the program will only work with the parents support. \"We will always have a door open to you,\" said Goedhart"}
{"Id":"1101163289088","Title":"Entertainment Briefs","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"5/21/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"1-Column Sunshine Wine Festival June 26 YAKIMA - Winners of the Central Washington State Fair wine competition will be announced at the annual \"Sunshine and Wine Festival,\" slated for Saturday, June 26. The actual judging of the competition will take place June 4-6. The 23rd annual event drew 356 different wine entries this year from 88 Washington state wineries, including a majority of the state's top 25 wine producing wineries. The annual fair competition is the only such event that judges Washington state wines exclusively. \"This will be our largest competition ever,\" said Ruth Anglin, activities manager at the fair. \"We've never had this many entries or this many wineries involved before. It is very exciting to see this competition grow,\" Anglin said. For the first time ever, because of the large number of entries, the judging will be done by four panels of five judges. Each panel will consist of a moderator and four panel members. The moderator will assist the process of translating the panel's judging skills into gold, silver and bronze medal awards. The awards will be presented at the June 26 Sunshine and Wine Festival at the Yakima fairgrounds. Although the wine judging is a closed event, the public can buy tickets for the festival,where the winning wines will be served. This year's festival will also feature foods from 15 area restaurants, and wine selections from 53 different wineries. Elvis imitatorset to perform YAKIMA - \"The Illusion of Elvis,\" a show presented by Danny Vernon, will take the stage at the YVCC Kendall Hall auditorium Friday, July 16, at 8 p.m. The county's Retired Senior Volunteer Program is hosting the show as a fund-raiser. Limited reserve seating tickets are priced at 25. General seating tickets are priced at 20. Tickets can be ordered by calling (509) 574-6858. Vernon is an award winning Elvis Presley tribute artist. In May 2003 he was named best Elvis impersonator at a competition in Palm Springs, Calif. The judging panel at that competition included the likes of Elvis' bodyguard, Sonny West, a back-up singer for Elvis, Estelle Brown, one of Elvis' band members, Charlie Hodge, and Elvis' personal hairdresser, Patty Parry. Vernon's website can be found at: www.dannyvernon.com. Pasta luncheon, fashion showon tap for June 12 UNION GAP - The Kamiakin Kiwanis and Retired Senior Volunteer Program groups will present an Italian pasta luncheon and fashion show Saturday, June 12, at Union Gap's Ahtanum Youth Park barn. In addition to the luncheon and fashion show, the afternoon activities will include a silent auction and raffle, including such items as framed wood carvings, afghans, Seattle Symphony tickets and a wine basket. The June 12 luncheon is scheduled for 1 p.m., to be followed by the fashion show at 2 p.m. Dress wear from Gottschalks will be featured at this year's show. Tickets, priced at 15, are available by calling the Retired Senior Volunteer Program office at (509) 574-6858. ABATE spring opener comingto Toppenish Toppenish - The 26th annual ABATE of Washington Spring Opener will be held at the Toppenish rodeo grounds June 17-20. The four-day event will include activities such as a parade of bikes, music, raffles and a poker run. The gates open Thursday, June 17, at noon with music beginning at 5 p.m. Music will be provided by Point of Entry of Yakima Shipply of Selah and Mid Life Crisis of Seattle. Tickets in advance are 25 or 30 at the gate. Advance tickets are available by calling (253) 475-4944 or by visiting the ABATE web site at www.abate-wa.org. Grandview winery hosts spring event GRANDVIEW - The Don Quixote Winery, Manchego Real and Guerra's Gourmet Cooking will present a special spring dinner Saturday, May 22, at 604 Elm St., Grandview. A seafood dinner, served with wine will be available at the cost of 10 per person from 5 to 8 p.m. For more information call the winery at 882-6111. Free June concert planned in Alderwood The public is invited to attend a free concert being presented by the Yakima Valley Community Band Wednesday, June 2, at 7:30 p.m. at the Alderwood High School auditorium. The band is under the direction of Dick Schactler of Yakima. College journal writers' reception planned GRANDVIEW - Student contributors to the Yakima Valley Community College literary journal, Prism 2004, will be guests of honor at a reception to be held Wednesday, June 2, on the Grandview campus. The reception, scheduled from 11:30 a.m. to 1 p.m., will introduce the Lower Valley writers, artists and photographers who submitted their work for inclusion in the magazine. Also as part of the event copies of the magazine will be presented to the young artists, as well as special awards for the top contributors. Similar receptions are planned for Yakima campus students on June 1 and 3, at the Yakima YVCC campus. No Haters program scheduled in Mabton MABTON - The Mabton Jr./Sr. High School ninth and 10th graders are in rehearsal for a special end-of-the-year variety show to be held Thursday, May 27, at the high school gym. Under the direction of high school English teacher Diana Thomas, the students will celebrate their differences under the theme \"No Haters Allowed.\" The young performers will present programs for their fellow students at 12:30 p.m. and 2 p.m. They are also scheduled to give an evening performance for their families and the community at 6:30 p.m., Thomas said. The evening show will be held in conjunction with a fund-raiser dinner to benefit the school football program. Cost for the dinner and show is 7, payable at the door"}
{"Id":"1101163289322","Title":"Roach begins new term as Nouvella Club president","Author":"Jamie Smart","Time":"5/21/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"Even though she has been the president of the Lower Valley Nouvella Club for the past several years, Lu Ann Roach has not lost her enthusiasm for the leadership role. Yesterday afternoon Roach, along with officers who have served with her in the past, reaffirmed their commitment to the service-oriented group. Serving with Roach will be LouAnne Stiltner, first vice president, Betty Carlyle, second vice president; Edith Higgins, third vice president; Pam Serrano, treasurer; and Elsie Bell as recording secretary. Also installed as officers were Nita Coleman and Beth Miller as the editors of the club's newsletter. Deborah Clark will handle publicity, with Eleanor Yockey and Hazel Jacobson sharing hostess duties. The Nouvella Club has been one of the staunch supporters of the Lower Valley Pathway and recently contributed funds for the establishment of a new shady shelter on the pathway. The structure will be dedicated to the memory of Gerald Blunk, husband of long-time club member and pathway promoter Rita Blunk. Blunk reported that the Grandview City Council has agreed to match the club's pledge for the shelter project, as have the Yakima County commissioners. \"We are hoping to hear soon if the Alderwood City Council will also support the project,\" said Blunk, who along with her late husband worked most of the past 20 years to establish the pathway. In addition to supporting beautification projects, such as the pathway, the Nouvella Club presents scholarships to local high school students, supports literacy programs, and engages in presenting programs of general interest to the members. More than 30 women are currently members of the 46-year-old club, which meets once a month. The club doesn't meet in the summer, but will host a style show and membership drive when it resumes meeting in September, according to Roach"}
{"Id":"1101163289557","Title":"Briefs","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"5/20/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"1-Column Mabton offers driver s edclasses in June MABTON - The Mabton School District will offer driver's ed training classes, beginning June 1. Sign-ups are ongoing now, by calling Mabton High School at 894-4951. The cost to enroll is 100 for students living within the Mabton School District, and 275 for those who reside outside the district boundaries. The driver's ed classes will be held from June 1 through the end of July, on Tuesdays, Thursdays and Saturdays. The classes will be held from 5:30 to 7:30 p.m. the first week, with classroom hours switching to 7 to 9 a.m. as of June 10. After-school soccer campon tap June 1-4 The Alderwood Parks and Recreation Department is offering an after-school soccer camp June 1-4 for kids in kindergarten through sixth grade. Open to both boys and girls, the camp will be held from 3 to 5:30 p.m. each of the four days at the Pioneer Elementary School soccer fields. Camp directors will be Alderwood High School soccer coaches Juan Pineda, Artemio Rodriguez and Kathy Jolliff. Registration forms are currently available at the local parks and rec office. There is a 20 fee to attend the four-day camp"}
{"Id":"1101163289807","Title":"Forum","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"5/19/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"1-Column WASL unreliable The State Board of Education (SBE) and your legislators are about to \"marry\" the state's children to an abusive partner, the WASL a high stakes but unreliable, invalid test that will unfairly determine which kids move up and which will be pushed aside. All who testified at the SBE's May 12 meeting objected to the impending nuptials, including parents, minority educators and parents representing Hispanics, Asians and Native Americans, the teachers union, special educators, parents of special education students and the non-union Northwest Professional Educators that focuses on students and professionalism. Instead of calling off the wedding before anyone gets hurt, officials plan to tell your children to go back to their abusive partner, not once, not twice, but four times! Not only that, WASLs are being piloted in additional grades, promising further reductions in students' instructional time. A messy divorce is inevitable, but only after the state wastes millions of dollars and lives too precious to count. Parents and taxpayers must demand that officials can the WASL for cost effective, reliable performance measures that help children, not hurt them. They can call legislators at 800-562-6000, the SBE at 360-725-6025 or go on-line to sbe@ospi.wednet.edu. Prevent this ceremony or soon you'll be searching for your nearest shelter for the educationally abused. /s/ Cindy Omlin, Executive Director, Northwest Professional Educators, Spokane Blood drawing The Red Cross blood drawing held May 4 was sponsored by the Washington Food Services Association - chapter 56. Rose Nesmith was the chairperson. We had 64 presenters and two first-time donors. Fourteen were unable to give, leaving 50 units collected. Because of their efforts, 150 people will have another chance at life. Many thanks to the sponsors for donating the delicious cookies and juice, and the Yakima Valley Dairy Women for the ice cream bars. Thanks, too, to the United Methodist Church for the use of its hall, Max of Washington Corrugators for displaying the banner at Centennial Square and Bob Story for publicity in the Alderwood Daily News. And then there are the volunteers whose services are always appreciated: Alice Benedetti, Myrtis Lang, Ella Mae Lochner, Phyllis Morris, Maxine Means, Evelyn Murray, Renee Murray, Tana Brotherton and Accordia Horn. A special thanks to all the donors, who are the lifeline for the flow of blood in the Valley. Hope to see everyone at the next blood drawing on Tuesday, July 6, at the United Methodist Church in Alderwood, from 1 to 6 p.m. /s/ Marie Handy, Alderwood American Red Cross blood drawing chairperson School record For 18 years I've skimmed the local sports section with an eye out for the girls track results. Being a highly competitive person I like to see how race times during my \"glory days\" match up with our current speedsters. At the beginning of each season I'm curious about which young lady might race by my old times. I'd always hoped that when my 300 hurdles record was shattered, and it was demolished, that the new record holder would be someone that I know. Last weekend, Hilary Van de Graaf not only won the District title in the 300 low hurdles, a grueling race, but she established a new school record and left me in the dust! Way to go Hilary! I'm proud to have such a well deserving young lady take my place in the record books. /s/ Erika Barrom, Alderwood SVID water Since I don't do very well speaking to a public group, I am giving my thoughts about the latest development by \"some\" of the City Council on the subject of irrigation water through SVID (May 10 Alderwood Daily News story). Obviously, some of the Council haven't read all the letters the DSN has received on the subject. They may recall, I have written a few of these letters concerning SVID and its practices, including the takeover of Snipes Mountain Irrigation District. I really think the Council needs to do more research into what they are proposing to do with SVID. First of all, I do agree that the 250 charge for hook-up is not a bad price. But, even so, you have to have more than one hook-up in an area to get on their priority list. So, while you may have the funds to hook up, your neighbor may not, and you will not get priority over an area with more than one hook-up. Second, I priced all of the equipment necessary to complete getting the water from the outlet provided by SVID to your existing irrigation system, whether it be automatic sprinklers or hoses. Here are a few of the costs: 254 for a one-horsepower pump, 62 for a filter, 11 for a screen, 13 for pipe (may vary for each lot), 50 for fittings (may vary for each lot), 100 for a meter (available only from SVID) and 38 in taxes. The total: 527. This is provided I do all the work myself. What about the cost for those who can't do it themselves? Plus, you must buy a backflow prevention unit so that city water and SVID water do not mix that's at least another 100. I agree you would save money in the long run, maybe, or until SVID raises its rates again. Please get more information before jumping into this. Another point, Councilman de la Cruz brought up the raise in the assessment from Snipes to SVID. SVID has the practice of charging for a minimum of one acre, no matter how small your parcel is, it is charged at the one-acre rate. Yet, if you have 1.1 acres you are charged 1.1 times the 1-acre rate. Most of the parcels on Harrison Hill are less than one acre. This unreasonable minimum charge is what prompted me in the first place to try to change SVID's practice. But, as with any bureaucracy, my attempt was futile, though I believe the hook-up rate is, in part, attributable to my and my fellow property owners' attendance and comments at SVID meetings. Thank you again to all those who accompanied me to those meetings. Finally, \"We all have to pay for some things we don't get,\" a quote from Mr. Jim Trull in reference to SVID charging a minimum 1-acre charge for all parcels: this quote was in an article written by Joanna Luft when she was a reporter for the Alderwood Daily News. Many thanks to Joanna and the Daily Sun for their coverage of those meetings and this subject. One last thought, I hope this letter again angers the citizens of Alderwood. Having to pay for more than what you receive, as stated by Mr. Trull, really doesn't cut it. You should only have to pay for what you are entitled to receive, and, if that is less than one acre, so be it. Charges should be based on parcel size only. /s/ a disgruntled citizen, David Hansen, Alderwood"}
{"Id":"1101163290072","Title":"Berry farmer presents fund-raising opportunity","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"5/19/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"Mike and Jean Youngquist of Mount Vernon have been farming berries, cauliflower and cucumbers in the Skagit Valley for move than 35 years. Wednesday morning, Jean spoke to the Alderwood Daybreak Rotary Club about the possibility of selling berries as a local fund-raiser. Youngquist said her family first got started in farming in the 1800s, growing oats, which were shipped to the greater-Seattle area and used to fuel the city's horse drawn carts. As her family continued to farm, the industry began to change and the family moved into growing crops like the ones they grow today. Today, the Youngquists, who form the company Mike & Jean's, grow strawberries, raspberries, blueberries, cucumbers and cauliflower. Youngquist said the crops the family grows aren't the only thing that has changed in the industry. Processors started to move out of the Skagit Valley area, leaving the farm with little choice but to take its operation to a new level. Youngquist said Mike & Jean's went to direct marketing. \"It's really risky,\" she said, noting that they had to build a new facility and start dealing with different grocery stores. Youngquist said Mike & Jean's grows, processes, packs and promotes all of the produce they specialize in. She added that cauliflower is their largest crop. According to Youngquist, the farm hires about 200 seasonal workers a year. In regards to the company's fund-raising opportunities, Youngquist explained that since Mike & Jean's does do direct marketing they can offer organizations, like Alderwood Daybreak Rotary, a good price on berries. She said the club can then turn around and sell the berries as a fund-raiser, offering consumers a good price while still making a profit. \"The consumer gets a price they can't beat,\" she said. When it comes to fund-raisers, Youngquist said groups have their choice of selling fresh washed and sliced strawberries, raspberries and blueberries, as well as individually quick frozen raspberries. Youngquist said the strawberries should be available June 14 through 20, raspberries July 5 through 20 and blueberries July 5 through Aug. 14"}
{"Id":"1101163305947","Title":"Tests show some farm workers over-exposed to pesticides","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"5/19/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"Since February, the Washington State Department of Labor and Industries (L&I) has been monitoring cholinesterase levels in farm workers throughout the state, working to ensure that workers are not being overexposed to different pesticides. According to Elaine Fischer with L&I public affairs and the United Farm Workers of America, as of May 12, 2,668 baseline tests have been administered across the state, with 345 follow-up tests having been taken. Of those 345 people who received follow-up testing, 82 employees working for 27 different growers were identified to have depressed cholinesterase levels, which warranted a work place investigation. An additional 20 workers were identified as having been exposed to pesticides to such a degree they couldn't perform any additional work duties that could result in additional exposure. Fischer said the work place investigations will include an evaluation of pesticide application techniques at the 27 farms, as well as taking a look at the sanitation facilities that are offered. Fischer said the percentage of tests that are coming back showing depressed cholinesterase levels in workers is within the range of what L&I estimated it would see. She also pointed out that although L&I did have an estimate, what they are seeing now is the true baseline as far as how many workers are actually being exposed to these pesticides. \"The first year represents the reality of what is out there,\" Fischer said. Erik Nicholson, Pacific Northwest regional director for the United Farm Workers of America, said the results of the tests show that farm workers are continuing to suffer from dangerous levels of exposure to toxic pesticides. \"These numbers, so early in the spray season, clearly establish the need for this regulation,\" Nicholson said. Fischer said that as the season continues, farmers in the area will move into applying different pesticides for different crops. \"We'll see as time goes on,\" Fischer said, noting that the different pesticides could mean different test results. According to the United Farm Workers of America, while the data being collected establishes that farm workers are being over-exposed to pesticides, L&I could not confirm that any of the exposed workers had been removed from job duties that would result in additional exposure. \"We want to make sure these workers are receiving the full protection afforded to them under this regulation,\" Nicholson said. Under the rule, workers who work with pesticides receive a blood test prior to the spray season to establish a baseline for the cholinesterase enzyme. Once they have worked with two classes of pesticides for 50 hours in a 30-day period, they go in for a periodic blood draw. If there is a 20 to 29 percent depression of cholinesterase, the regulation calls for a work place investigation. Depressions of 30 percent or more mandate the removal of the employee from any duties that would require additional exposure to pesticides"}
{"Id":"1101163306213","Title":"Open Mike","Author":"John Panni","Time":"5/19/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"Last month marked my eighth year in this crazy industry called journalism. Why do I stay involved with it? It couldn't be because of the people calling up with complaints or others being mad at you for something you wrote. No, that can't be it. I was thinking about this very subject the other day when I was watching Sunnnyside High School boys soccer goalie Johnny Hernandez stop the third shot of a shootout against Hanford to help the Grizzlies move on to the 3A State tournament. I stay in this business for \"The Moment.\" That immortal part of time where all the stars are in alignment and everything is right in the universe. I have seen plenty of moments over the years in this industry, even in small-town America. Moments are parts of events that happen which you won't forget. Moments are those glimpses at greatness. So, here is my top eight moments, great events that stick out in my mind over the last eight years. 8. At another newspaper I worked for an incident occurred in the community involving an educator who filed a complaint about another staff member. The administration made this poor person's life horrible. They had this teacher cleaning closets and she was subjected to the abuse of other employees. The sad part was the administration and the school board did nothing to stop it. This is where I learned about the ugly side that comes out in some people who have power. 7. Anyone who has ever seen Alderwood High School cross country runner Isley Gonzalez compete knows they have witnessed someone special. But the most special moment that I have ever had the privilege of witnessing came during Gonzalez's junior year at the 3A State cross country meet. In one of the most grittiest performances I have seen, Gonzalez, who was seemingly a dead fish in the water, came back from 12th in the field with a half-mile left in the race to finish third. In my eyes, Gonzalez proved she belonged that day. 6. The day I had the chance to talk with Gov. Gary Locke for 10 minutes. The governor had stopped by the Del Monte plant in Toppenish for a press conference and I had the chance to talk to him directly. It was a good moment for me. It is not every day one can talk to the governor. 5. A packed house of firemen crammed the Alderwood City Council chambers united in hopes of stopping the city from possibly privatizing the ambulance service. That night provided me with a powerful insight that sometimes what is best for a community doesn't deal with dollars and cents, but rather the human aspect, which is something often forgotten. 4. One of the most complete high school football games I have ever seen in eight years was played Halloween night 2003. It was the night the Alderwood High School football team destroyed Grandview in what was a breathtaking display of teamwork by the Grizzlies. If Alderwood could have played that way every game, Grizzly head coach Mark Marro and his team would have been undefeated. Alderwood captured a playoff spot that night, but what the very cold October evening showed was that Grizzly football has the ability to be a powerhouse once again. 3. The 2001-02 Alderwood Christian High School boys basketball team that won the schools' second-ever State 'B' title. I had the privilege of watching the likes of Kenton Barry, Daryl Haak, Joel Hughes, Lance Den Boer, Dustin Merryman and my friend Coach Dean Wagenaar in the years previous to them winning the State title and you could tell that season was going to be special. That group's run to the State title that year was destiny. It was meant to be, it was the culmination of hard work and dedication seldom seen by a group of young men. Watching the Knights at State was a special event for me. I truly learned what the meaning of a team was that year with those young men. 2. Covering the speech by President George W. Bush at Ice Harbor Dam. I am not a Republican by any means, but President Bush provided me with a unique moment that not many people in this neck of the woods gets the opportunity to take part in. Everything about the president's arrival can fall under \"The Moment\" heading. 1. My top special moment of the past eight years actually came this past year, Jan. 30. The night will be remembered for a long time by fans of the Mabton High School boys basketball team. It was the night Coach Brock Ledgerwood and his Vikings stepped out on their home floor and beat the unbeatable Riverside Christian Crusaders, the then top 'B' basketball team in the state. What was notable about the game was that Riverside kicked the tar out of Mabton the first time the two teams played. But sitting in the stands that night I knew I was witnessing something special, something unforgettable. It was one of those nights where the underdog stood tall. On the side of being dramatic, it was truly an evening that showed on any given night, under any given circumstances, any given thing can happen. . John Panni can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or email him at mPanni@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101163306447","Title":"Grandview leaders discuss ways to work together","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"5/18/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"GRANDVIEW - Although Monday night marked the regularly scheduled meeting of the Grandview City Council, the first official words of the meeting were uttered by Grandview Schools Superintendent John Mathis. Mathis, as well as other members of the Grandview School Board and Kevin Chase, who was recently hired to take Mathis' position when he retires this summer, were all on hand for a joint meeting of the city council and school board. Mathis said when the meeting was first scheduled, it was done so with the idea that his replacement would have already be found. And that assumption was correct. Monday night, Mathis introduced the city council to Chase, who is currently working as the superintendent of the Mabton School District. According to Mathis, Chase was officially hired by the school board during its last meeting. \"I think Kevin is just going to do an outstanding job,\" Mathis said, noting that the programs that have been implemented during the last few years are sure to continue to grow and flourish under Chase's guidance. Chase said one of the things that drew him to the Grandview position was the teamwork he saw between the school board and the city council. He added that in his opinion the Grandview School District has done some really great things, things he doesn't plan on changing when he takes over in the coming months. City Administrator Jim Sewell noted that something else he would like to see remain the same are monthly lunches he regularly has had with Mathis. \"I want to continue that with you,\" Sewell said. Mayor Mike Bren also welcomed Chase, noting that it is nice to see someone from the area, be able to stay in the area and continue to grow. After being introduced to Chase, Sewell brought up several areas of concern the city has in order to see how both city council and the school board can work together to tackle them. The first issue Sewell brought up for discussion was trying to curb juvenile crime by offering different after-school programs. He asked Mathis what type of after-school programs the district currently has, and if they are programs with which the city's parks and recreation department are familiar. Mathis began by talking about the school district's three 21st Century Learning centers. The centers are located in each of the district's three elementary schools and offers after-school programs to elementary-aged students. He explained that the learning centers focus on three components, education, recreation and parent involvement. At the middle and high school levels, Mathis said the district has the Gear-Up program, which they received a grant for three years ago. He said the program is currently offered to students in sixth, seventh, eighth and ninth grades. According to Mathis, Gear-Up is mostly an education program that does include a small recreation component. Sewell said youth violence and drug use is another area of concern for the city council. He explained that at this point it is something the Grandview Police Department is working on. \"This is a real priority,\" Sewell said. \"It might be an area where the school district could come into play.\" The two entities also talked about the Cops in School program, which was ended in the district. Mathis said that although the Grandview Police Department does have a very fast reaction time to any incidents at the schools, the Cops in Schools programs offer other benefits. Chase suggested that although the program may no longer be available in Grandview, there are other ways the schools can work with the police department. He noted that simply having the police out in the school zones before and after school and at lunch could be helpful. He also suggested that the school's administrators have a monthly meeting with local law enforcement to talk about things that are going on in the community. Overall, Bren said one of the city council's goals is to try to make Grandview one of the best communities in the Valley to live. \"We're looking for ways we can continue to make Grandview look good,\" Bren said, noting that the city's entrances have already been transformed. Sewell said the city is also looking toward growth. He noted that they are already beginning to search out businesses that would complement the new Wal-Mart distribution center, as well as tourism related businesses, such as hotels and restaurants. \"We're looking at things for increasing our sales tax revenue,\" Sewell said"}
{"Id":"1101163306947","Title":"Van Belle slowly turning over family farm to son Chris","Author":"Jamie Smart","Time":"5/17/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"From his kitchen window, Cliff Van Belle can see the fruits of several generations of farmers who have tilled the land on property that has been in his family more than 80 years. Van Belle, who was selected as the Alderwood Chamber of Commerce's Outstanding Agri-business Person this past March, said his grandfather homesteaded the farm on Van Belle Road, located north of Alderwood. Van Belle was born in Alderwood and grew up in the Liberty area, near Granger. The family homestead has been in his care for most of the past 30 years. \"We moved the original farmhouse off and built our current hone in its place,\" he said. \"But the barn is original,\" he added. The old-fashioned barn with its antique weather vane and hay derrick were originally built by his grandparents on the Van Belle Road farm'ss original 80-acre tract. Van Belle takes a lot of pride in maintaining the historic structure on the family farm. Van Belle, along with his son Chris, farms more than 1,000 acres of wheat, corn, hay and mint. His son, Steve, helps out, but also farms a few acres of grapes down the road, said Van Belle. While enjoying a quiet conversation with Van Belle, one wouldn't know how excited he can get about turning the first row of soil each spring. But his family claims he can get as excited as a kid at Christmas each spring. His skills on the farm were recognized in 1997. Van Belle received a national award from the National Corn Growers Association in honor of his excellent yield and the overall quality of his crops. A soft-spoken man given to practical jokes, Van Belle plays as hard as he works. For years he admits he was nuts about snowmobiling. \"I spent a lot of time each winter playing with the kids on snowmobiles,\" he said. These days he is crazy about another type of loud machine. Van Belle is a huge fan of NASCAR racing. \"I like going to the races and watching the races on television,\" he admits. But his real passion is for his 10 grandchildren, with whom he enjoys fishing and water skiing vacations each summer and the occasional hay ride each fall. Recently Van Belle has decided to take more time for those family outings. \"I've cut back on my farming, letting Chris take over more of the farm,\" he said. But that doesn't mean the long-time farmer has given up watching the weather or current water conditions. He and his wife, Esther, still keep a close eye on the farm. \"We just take a lot more time off,\" he grinned"}
{"Id":"1101163307182","Title":"Grizzlies capture first-ever Regional","Author":"John Panni","Time":"5/17/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"CHENEY - At the beginning of the season Alderwood High School boys soccer coach Juan Pineda, who was recently named the 2004 Mid-Valley League coach of the year, said his Grizzlies planned on being one of the four best teams in the State. The Grizzlies are now just two games away from accomplishing their goal. Alderwood, which entered the postseason as the No. 3 seed out of the Mid-Valley League, took care of business this past Saturday and in the process captured the program's first-ever Regional championship. The Grizzlies defeated a determined Cheney team, the top seed out of the Greater Spokane League, 2-1 on Saturday to win the Regional crown and a top seed into the State tournament on Tuesday. Alderwood will host Hanford in an opening round 3A State tournament game this Tuesday at 5 p.m. The game will be played at the Grizzly football field. The Grizzlies beat the Falcons last Tuesday 2-1 in a shootout to gain an automatic berth to State. The Grizzlies have owned Hanford the past two seasons, losing only once in five games. Pineda said Cheney had a very hard style to play against. \"They are a good team,\" said Pineda. Pineda said Cheney runs a lot of overlaps. Cheney also has a style that has four defenders, which allowed the Blackhawks to attack or play defense with five players because of the set-up on the field. \"The boys were able to destroy that,\" said Pineda. \"It took a while.\" Pineda strung out his forwards, forcing the Blackhawks' defense to come up. With Cheney coming out of its grouping, the Grizzlies were able to attack offensively up the middle, said Pineda. Alderwood's first goal came from Junior Martinez, who was recently named the Mid-Valley League player of the year for the second consecutive season. The Grizzly junior scored at the 15th minute off an assist from Joel Jimenez. The Grizzlies' second goal was off an indirect kick taken by Kyle Van de Graaf at the 26th minute. Van de Graaf flicked the ball to Luis Galvan, who sent a header to Silvano Ramos, who sent the ball past Cheney's goalie in the one-on-one. Alderwood shut down Cheney until the 68th minute, when Blackhawk Devin Merrill scored. Pineda said the goal came off a corner kick that curved past keeper Johnny Hernandez. The Grizzlies outshot Cheney 11 to 8 on goal. Hernandez finished with four saves and Cheney keeper Josh Hooley had seven saves. Pineda said he was very pleased with his defense in the first half. \"Our defense played really well,\" said Pineda. \"We stopped a lot of their runs.\" Pineda credited Cheney with making adjustments in the second half. He said the Blackhawks dominated much of the play in the second half. \"In the final 20 minutes, we had a lot of attacks on our side,\" said Pineda. Cheney broke down Alderwood's defense by using a lot of long kicks to penetrate deep into Grizzly territory. What worked well for Alderwood overall, said Pineda, was that the Grizzlies didn't try to reinvent the wheel. \"We were consistent,\" said Pineda. \"Nobody got out of their usual style of play. We were very disciplined about marking other players.\" Pineda did say he would liked to have seen his team play stronger in the second half. Pineda said the Grizzlies need to realize teams are going to make runs if they are behind and especially at this level Alderwood needs to be ready an entire game. Pineda said it feels good to have won a Regional championship. \"I am really happy,\" said Pineda. \"It is a reflection of every member of our program.\" Pineda expects Tuesday's home game with Hanford to be an exciting one. The Falcons this past Saturday ended West Valley-Yakima's string of a decade-plus of appearances in the State tournament with a 2-0 victory to capture the No. 3 seed into State. \"I think they have had a lot of time to make adjustments,\" said Pineda. \"I think it will be another exciting game"}
{"Id":"1101163307791","Title":"Obituaries","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"5/17/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"MARIA MILANEZ MARIA MILANEZ Maria Milanez, 73, of Alderwood died Monday, May 17, 2004. She is survived by her husband Elpidio Valencia; a daughter, Canderia Gonzalez of Alderwood; two brothers and four sisters; 10 grandchildren and 10 great-grandchildren. An obituary will be in Tuesday s Alderwood Daily News. Services pending at Valley Hill Funeral Home, Alderwood. JAMES RILEY CORNWELL JR. James Riley Cornwell Jr., 61, of Prosser went home to be with his Lord and Savior Wednesday, May 12, 2004, at Kadlec Medical Center. He was born Feb. 9, 1943 in Prosser to Alice (Voss) and James R. Cornwell. Jim was a passionate hunter, fisherman and outdoorsman. Whether he was hunting in a field in the Yakima Valley or he was on safari in South Africa, he was content. He was even happier when he came home and was able to share his outdoor adventures with his family. Jim served in the U.S. Navy from 1961 to 1965. He was a lifetime member of NRA, VFW and Eagles Lodge. He loved to go to the VFW and swap stories with all his good friends. Jim worked at Flour Daniel at Hanford for 23 years as a maintenance manager. He was a much-respected boss, co-worker and friend. He loved to attend all his grandchildren s sporting events from football, basketball, baseball and wrestling, he was the number 1 fan. Jim was very well read and was a walking history encyclopedia. Anything his grandchildren couldn t find on the Internet, they knew grandpa would know it. He was also a very caring and compassionate person. He, along with his wife, Shirley, took care of his mother-in-law, Grace Aukamp, for six years making sure she was comfortable in her time of need. He was also a master storyteller. He could make a trip into the local supermarket sound like an adventure. He loved a good joke and always had one to share if you asked, and he had one to share if you didn t. He had a nickname for everyone, and if he hadn t given you one yet it was only a matter of time. From Spamburger and Norman to Duke or Buzzard , no one was safe. Everyone around him loved his sense of humor. We will miss it very much. When he was leaving a family reunion, barbecue or birthday party, he would always say, I m sure glad you had a chance to see me again , leaving a smile on everyone s face. He will be greatly missed by all. Survivors include his wife, Shirley Cornwell of Prosser; five sons, James R. (Maggie) Cornwell III of Grandview, Scott Adam (Mary) Cornwell of Warden, Michael Anthony (Hilda) Cornwell of Outlook, Jimmy (Mickie) Martin and Cary (Teri) Martin, both of Prosser; one daughter, Beckie Cornwell of Warden; two brothers, Joe Cornwell and Jerry Cornwell; four sisters, Sharon Schragg, Arlene Craig, Kathy Cornwell and Becky Engles; a special friend, Bill Bancroft; 26 grandchildren, one great-grandson; and numerous nieces and nephews. He was preceded in death by his parents; and two sisters, Theresa Mallonee and Ann Cornwell. Viewing will be held Monday, May 17, 2004, from noon to 8 p.m. at Langevin-Mussetter Funeral Home, 1010 W. Yakima Ave, Yakima. Funeral services will be held Tuesday, May 18, 2004, at noon at Langevin-Mussetter with interment to follow at West Hills Memorial Park, with full military honors provided by Prosser VFW Post 3207"}
{"Id":"1101163308025","Title":"AHS seniors caught partying won't be banned from grad ceremony","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"5/14/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"Nine Alderwood High School seniors have been disciplined following an incident involving alcohol that occurred on the high school football field a week ago. According to the Alderwood Police Department, officers responded to a suspicious person call at 1:50 a.m. on May 7. A statement from the Alderwood School District notes that the officers witnessed the students drinking on school property. According to the Alderwood School District, the students involved in the incident have been disciplined, but at this point will be allowed to walk with their classmates during the June 4 graduation ceremony. According to Alderwood High School policy, since the students' actions involved alcohol the students were facing either immediate emergency expulsion or, if it's a first offense, the expulsion can be changed to a short-term suspension with a parent, student and administrator conference. The school district notes that Alderwood High School Principal Dennis Birr and his administrative staff have met with the parents of each of the students, and the students have been disciplined and are performing community service on school property. According to the school district, each of the students have been banned from all activities on school grounds throughout their suspension, including senior follies, athletic events or any other extra-curricular activities. The only exception was that the seniors were allowed to make their senior project presentations. Under the Alderwood High School athletic code, any of the nine seniors who were involved in athletics have been suspended for the remainder of the season. The students were also required to sign a behavior contract for the remainder of the school year. According to the Alderwood School District, if any of the students violate school policy in the coming weeks, they will not be allowed to walk at graduation"}
{"Id":"1101163308260","Title":"High school episode brings out the hangmen","Author":"Bob Story","Time":"5/14/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"I've received my fair share of phone calls and e-mails this week. Numerous people are apparently up-in-arms about the teens who decided to \"celebrate\" their pending graduation from high school. Seems some of the seniors last week (nearly 10 of them) got liquored up or pot-eyed, or both, made a mess of the press box at the football field and got nabbed by our local police. Charges of DUI, malicious mischief, drug and alcohol possession, trespassing on school property and attempting to escape from police custody are pending. The gist of most of the calls and e-mails I've received is two-fold. One-I've been questioned on why the Alderwood Daily News hasn't publicized this story. Two-most of the callers and e-mailers seem to think these seniors shouldn't be allowed to participate in graduation ceremonies this year. Concerning the first issue. My policy, and that of the Alderwood Daily News, is that whenever an individual gets arrested on the types of charges filed last week, the coverage only warrants an appearance in the police report. That occurred yesterday (Thursday) on our police report page. The youths who were 18 years old or older had their names listed in the report, as well as the charges that are pending against them. Those younger than 18 were only listed in the police report as juveniles. If a person isn't at least 18, we do not publish their names on charges such as these. Our feeling is that kids will make mistakes and we do not want to be part of branding them. We believe a person who is 18 or older is responsible for their actions, thus we print their names in the police report. It can be argued that a 16 or 17-year-old should be responsible for their actions, but a number had to be selected and the decision was made many years ago that 18 was an age that could stand up to scrutiny when dealing with people on both sides of the argument. The exception to the policy of going only with police report coverage, as far as publishing a full blown story, is when a group of people are arrested on charges such as these. One person getting arrested is an incident. A group of people, that can be construed as a major disturbance. It can get a little cloudy when three or four persons are arrested, as in terms of whether three or four makes up a group. But in this particular case, there were nine Alderwood High School seniors involved. That definitely qualifies as a group. So, why have no stories on this particular incident been published in the Alderwood Daily News this week? To be flat out honest, we more or less fumbled the ball. Our police reporter, Melissa Browning, started a two-week vacation last Thursday. It was Thursday evening when the seniors decided to have their fun. Our fill-in police reporter picked up the police log Friday morning, but being unaccustomed to looking for possible stories from the log, didn't recognize that a story was brewing. I don't blame her. Bottom line-I didn't explain to her beforehand what was expected of her. I failed to provide an adequate job description on this particular task. We didn't fully learn of last Thursday's high school fiasco until this past Monday morning, thanks to a call from one of our readers. By the time we got the official skinny on it, Monday's deadline had passed. Since then, getting a detailed explanation from the police department on the incident has been like pulling teeth. Apparently, the two individuals who normally channel the police press releases to the media have been away from the station. We have since turned to the school district, which in my opinion has been very forthcoming about the whole thing. Better late than never, you'll find the story about this high school graduation \"celebration\" on page one of today's edition. As far as the second issue-not allowing these nine seniors to participate in graduation ceremonies-that's pretty far off the mark in terms of fairness. Yep, they screwed up. Despite all the public service campaigns through the news media and schools, these nine seniors decided to \"celebrate\" in a fashion that wasn't responsible, safe or legal. But what if this had happened back in November of December, six or seven months before graduation? I'll tell you-it would have been long forgotten by now. You've also got to ask yourself, how fair would it be to not allow these seniors to participate in commencement exercises after putting in 13 years of schoolwork, just because of one lousy, irresponsible choice they made? The people who have expressed to me the sentiment of making an example of these teens, I have to ask. What if your son or daughter had been caught in this predicament? Would you be so quick to hang them? . Bob Story,can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or e-mail him at bstory@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101163308494","Title":"AHS names top grads","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"5/13/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Just 14 more days remain until the Alderwood High School class of 2004 can celebrate graduation from high school and begin the next leg of their journey in life. Already well on their way to pursuing higher education are those students who during their high school careers have achieved outstanding academic status by climbing to the top 5 percent of their class. Leading the class with matching grade point averages of 4.259 are Stacey Gorski and Josh Barr, who have been named class co-valedictorians. Amy Kilian, with a 4.222 GPA, will be the class salutatorian. Also numbered in the top 5 percent are Mayra Carrillo, 4.151 GPA, Steffani Startup, 4.058 GPA, John Van Wingerden III, 4.087 GPA, Alaina Hull, 4.035 GPA, Angel Wells, 3.964 GPA, Sarah Dill, 3.949 GPA, Kyle E. Van de Graaf, 3.913 GPA, Martin Sanchez, 3.913 GPA, Jeffrey Davis, 3.892 GPA, Ryan Webster, 3.888 GPA, Laura Matson, 3.882 GPA, Jaime Lua, 3.870 GPA, Mitch Lathen, 3.846 GPA and Monica Sambrano, 3.806 GPA. In addition to be being academically gifted, each member of the top 5 percent is also active in some type of community service, sport or extra-curricular activity. For example, Gorski, who has made a career of being a standout in all of the Alderwood School District's science classes, has earned numerous state and regional grand champion science fair awards. Most recently she was recognized by the Alderwood Chamber of Commerce as its 2004 Outstanding Young Person. Gorksi, the daughter of Trish Nixon and Fred Gorski, is already enrolled at the University of the Sciences in Philadelphia, Pa., where she plans to study to become an oncologist pharmacist. Barr, the son of Chuck and Ruth Barr, already has a direct admission into the computer science program at the University of Washington. He hopes one day to not only design award winning video games, he hopes to become a novelist. While in high school Barr was an active member of the AHS Apple Bowl and Knowledge Bowl teams. He was an Evergreen Boys State delegate and is an Eagle Scout. Kilian will be attending the University of Washington to study biochemistry with plans of attending medical school. A leader in many of the school clubs, she also served as student body secretary, as well as being active in soccer, track, drama, fire squad and Key Club. The daughter of John and Jean Kilian, she was a member of the AHS Knowledge Bowl and Apple Bowl teams and served on the Alderwood School District's Athletic Advisory Committee. Carrillo, the daughter of Gerardo and Irma Carrillo, has shown interest in high school leadership training groups, such as FBLA and Link Crew, an organization which helps underclassmen adjust to high school life. Carrillo, who hopes to become a family doctor, will attend the University of Washington in the fall. Startup, who not only attended classes at AHS but also attended Yakima Valley Community College Running Start classes, plans to study architecture at Washington State University, beginning this fall. In addition to being interested in music, Startup has been active in Link Crew, drama, flag team and peer mediation. She also found time to be active in volleyball, softball and basketball. She is the daughter of Don and Cindy Startup. Van Wingerden, who has divided his high school career between wrestling, jazz band and working after school, will attend the University of Washington. He expects to earn a degree in biochemistry and perhaps go into research. He is the son of John and Deanna Van Wingerden. Hull, who has proven herself a leader on the AHS student council and leaders in action group, plans to travel for a year before settling into college life. Hull, the daughter of Steve and Paula Hull, has participated in the AHS drama club, fire squad and soccer team. She is very active in her church youth group, which has led to her decision to be a part of the REACH Youth Ministry next year. Wells, who sees herself eventually working in a big city emergency room, will attend the University of Washington this fall. She plans to major in biology or chemistry. Her graduate school plans include medical school. Active in Key Club and math team, she was also a member of the Grizzly fastpitch, bowling and golf teams, as well as being the volleyball team manager. In addition, the daughter of Sharon Wells volunteered her spare time at Alderwood Community Hospital. Dill will complete her high school career with her AHS diploma and an Associates of Science degree earned while attending the Yakima Valley Community College Running Start program. Dill has been accepted with distinction as a junior at the University of Washington, where she plans to major in biology. Medical or dentistry school looms on her horizon. Dill served as captain of the AHS soccer team and currently hold an orange belt in karate. She is the daughter of Donna and Jeffrey Dill. Van de Graaf, a force on the athletic field in soccer, football and basketball, will attend the University of Washington. He sees himself as an orthodontist following graduate school. He is the son of Rod and Lori Van de Graaf. Sanchez will attend the University of Washington, where his major will be business management. The senior class president hopes to one day to own his own business. He is the son of Martin and Martha Sanchez. Davis will give up his spot as a member of the AHS pep band, jazz band and concert band when he graduates. He will attend the University of Idaho in the fall. The son of Leonard and Susan Davis, he was also active in fire squad, Link Crew, as well as track, and cross country while attending AHS. Webster, the son of Kevin and Tracy Webster, will attend the University of Washington. He is undecided if his major will be in engineering, pharmacy or environmental law. A part-time employee at the Valley Racquet and Fitness Club, Webster was a member of the AHS golf and football teams. He was also a member of Link Crew, fire squad and drama club. Matson will be headed to Irvine, Calif. to attend Concordia University this fall. While attending AHS she participated in band, drama club, fire squad, Link Crew, Key Club and flag team. She is also a swimmer, soccer player and member of the Grizzly girls track team. She is the daughter of Jeffrey and Doris Matson. Lua has the choice of attending Central Washington University or Heritage College this fall. He wants to major in mathematics and Spanish regardless of which school he chooses. He volunteers his spare time to tutor elementary school students. One day he hopes to obtain a teaching degree. He is the son of Mercedes Lua. Lathen hopes to pursue a career in the recording world, but first he plans to study communications at Western Washington University. He is the son of Tom Lathen and Laurie Carter. His extracurricular activities have ranged from being the captain of the AHS Apple Bowl team to being a member of drama club, the AHS jazz ensemble and the boys track team. Sambrano sees herself as a leader in the field of interior design within 20 years. But first she will attend Washington State University to study interior design. The daughter of Sylvia and Enrique Sambrano, she split her high school years between fastpitch, DECA, Leader in Action and FBLA activities after school"}
{"Id":"1101163323072","Title":"No TV...no problem for these families","Author":"Jamie Smart","Time":"5/12/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"The idea of giving up television for two weeks might make some people a little crazy. Questions such as what will we do until bedtime or how will we entertain the kids would plague most families. But not Scott and Tonya Marquez nor Ramona Gonzalez, all of Alderwood. The two young families recently took part in a two-week ban on television watching, just to see how their family would react. \"What we learned is that we really aren't a television family,\" said Tonya Marquez. The Marquez family and Gonzalez family were among the families to take part in \"TV Turnoff Week.\" The week was extended to two weeks for the Alderwood families to see if they could kick the television habit. The concept of TV Turnoff Week was established 10 years ago by the TV Turnoff Network, a non-profit group that encourages families to watch less television and spend more time together exercising, reading and talking to one another. According to research, 40 percent of American families have the TV on before sitting down to eat dinner and continue watching it through dinner. The turnoff event is designed to encourage families to have a meal together without television at least three or four times each week and hang out together, sharing the events in each other's lives. \"When we work with families that is one of the things we request in family counseling,\" said Jody McClellan, a family counselor with Lutheran Community Services of Yakima. A local organizer of the TV Turnoff event, she said turning off the television doesn't mean tuning out the world. She said a TV-free evening is a good chance for families to talk together about world events, rather than just watch them unfold on the TV. \"It helps the youngsters to develop some of those critical thinking skills educators are hoping children will develop,\" she added. The Marquez and Gonzalez families are among seven million American families who switched off their televisions for the temporary ban on TV. With their busy schedules that include a near daily routine of work, school, as well as after school latchkey sessions, religious classes, dance lessons and soccer games and practices, the families found their evenings packed with more conversation and more meal times spent around the dinner table. The Marquez family kept a small journal of their experiences. \"We did well on the first several days keeping track of every little activity. But soon we saw a pattern emerging,\" Marquez said. Daily routines varied little from school programs and homework. The parents found themselves spending more time together. \"I found I didn't sit down until after the evening chores were all done and it was time for bed,\" said Tonya Marquez. \"We got a lot done every day,\" she added. Gonzalez, who is a single mother of three and a college student, said her daily schedule doesn't allow for much television watching. \"We're out of the house by 7:30 a.m. and sometimes don't get back home until after 7 p.m.,\" she said of her schedule. \"That doesn't leave much time to sit in front of the television,\" Gonzalez smiled. \"We watch television at Grandma's,\" said her son, Marcel, 9. Watching television at the babysitter's was another place the Marquez youngsters found time for a quick 30 minutes of cartoons, said their mother But on the whole, the children didn't seem too upset about not being planted in front of the television. \"They never asked about watching television,\" Marquez said. But when they did it was to see a special show,\" she added. So we recorded it for viewing at a later date,\" she added. The Marquez family, who spent some of their TV-free evenings going for bike rides, also had plenty of other activities with which to keep them busy. \"Madison, 8, has weekly dance classes while Mathew is involved in soccer and little Molly, 4, is always hurrying to keep up. \"The kids are usually in bed by 8 p.m., so we spent a few minutes every night reading to them after baths,\" Marquez said. When the youngsters weren't on their way to soccer games or practice, they rode their bikes, played outside or did homework. A similar pattern was developing in the Gonzalez household. \"The kids spent time at latchkey after school most weekdays, where they get their homework done until I pick them up,\" said Gonzalez. \"They also have extra soccer practice and soon they'll be active in softball and t-ball,\" said the young mother. In addition to finding time to study for her English and education classes at Central Washington University, where she is an education major, Gonzalez coaches her son's soccer team. \"We're all in bed by about 9 each night,\" she said. \"Then up again at 6:30 a.m. to start all over,\" she added. Scott Marquez said watching television has never been a big priority for his family. \"I think it steals your creativity,\" said Marquez, who works at Marquez Manufacturing. His wife is employed at Alderwood Community Hospital in the business department. \"We have very busy schedules so the time we spend with the family is very important,\" he added. He enjoyed the past week of spending extra time playing with the kids. Their evenings included a lot of family cycling, games, such as dominos, and reading books. So far, neither family has plans of increasing their TV time. While admitting a little bit of television is a great way to unwind, the Marquez family likes the idea of keeping television turned off. It may remain a special treat for their family. \"We taped \"Survivors\" last week and saved it for a family night treat with popcorn to celebrate the end of our no TV experience,\" he said. Gonzalez said she also likes the idea of her children having more time to do extra reading or working on creative projects. \"I think they get along better this way as well,\" she added"}
{"Id":"1101163323385","Title":"Forum","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"5/12/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"1-Column Jump ropefund-raiser On April 30th Chief Kamiakin Elementary School in Alderwood held a Jump Rope for Heart event, raising money for the American Heart Association. I am very pleased to say that our students raised a little over 6,000. I would like to thank The Market and National Grape for providing snacks for all of the jumpers. I would also like to thank the staff at CK for all of their help and support; Isidro Caballero, Jerry Poff and Mrs. Hutchins, who were there to help and to cheer on the students; and Cindy Thompson, Maria Chavez, Shirley Pedraza, Marge Zylstra, Carrie Miller, Gayle Brewer and Kristie McBride for the many wonderful things they all did to help. Thanks, too, to Heidi Ohler and the leadership class from the high school for their invaluable help during the event, and to the parents, friends, neighbors and relatives of our students for supporting the jumpers' efforts. Also, thanks to the Alderwood Daily News for their excellent coverage and support, and lastly the students themselves. I am extremely proud to be associated with such a wonderful, giving, loving group of kids. The students at CK make my job the best job in the world. Thank you to everyone involved. You are all very much appreciated. /s/ Deana Dalton, Granger Cinco de Mayo Once again, the Alderwood Chamber of Commerce wishes to thank the community for its continued support of our annual Cinco de Mayo event. The weather was beautiful and the crowd exceeded our expectations. A lot of planning and hard work went into making the event flow smoothly. A major focus of the planning was to keep the area clean during the event and leave the streets clean at the end of the fiesta. We appreciate the helpfulness of Yakima Waste Systems and Cliff's Septic in this endeavor. We are most grateful for the excellent help and cooperation we had from the city staff, including everyone in the police department, parks and rec, public works and the fire department. Besides the board members who gave assistance, we had much needed help from some community volunteers, including Vernita Coffey, Jessica Zamorano and Mayra Zamorano, a group from Alderwood's day reporting program, a group from the Yakima County juvenile justice and trustees from the local jail. Wal-Mart very graciously sponsored the parade trophies and provided a canopy, plenty of bottled water, supplies, cakes and deli trays for the event. Carneceria Alderwood sponsored the Charro event and El Valle Family Mexican Restaurant sponsored the Charro trophies. Guerra Chile Farms and Carneceria Alderwood provided the band, Tormenta Musical, at the Charro event. Mid Valley Mall partnered with us to provide space for the car show, and KFC/A&W, Bank of the West and Hair Works sponsored the trophies. Ken Bierlink saved the day at the car show he went home to get a generator when we discovered we had overlooked the need for electricity. K&U Auto Parts, the Port of Alderwood, The Valley's Market, Ace Hardware, Sunny Spot Car Wash, Mid Valley Mall and Daily Buzz Deli provided \"stocking stuffers\" for car show participants. Thank you, one and all! We hope we have not forgotten anyone. /s/ Kathy Corliss, Alderwood Chamber of Commerce"}
{"Id":"1101163323572","Title":"Alderwood Lions Club seeks support for fireworks display","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"5/12/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"The Alderwood Lions Club needs your help to promote freedom's birthday In order to finance one of the best Fourth of July Fireworks displays in the Yakima Valley, the Alderwood Lions Club is collecting spare change. Thanks to the help of community volunteer Carol Stone, patriotically decorated donation jars have been set out at Alderwood businesses to collect much needed funds for this year's fireworks display, said Jamie Smart, Alderwood Lions Club president. \"The Alderwood Chamber of Commerce has generously allocated 2,500 for the 2004 display,\" she said. But more cash is needed. \"Last year's gala cost 4,000 and we are a bit short,\" she explained. \"We have mailed out letters seeking financial support to a number of community groups. We have already received several commitments for funds and several other groups have indicated they will be making donations,\" she said. Smart said this year's fireworks display will be held Sunday, July 4, at the Clem Senn Football Field in Alderwood. In addition to the fireworks display, a barbecue and 21-gun salute will precede the festive light show, she said. On Saturday, July 3, the Alderwood Parks and Recreation Department will host the much anticipated Come Back to the Country Soapbox Derby on Grant Avenue, with games and food to be featured in Alderwood's Central Park. The weekend celebration will also include the annual \"Spirit of Alderwood\" Awards ceremony prior to the derby races. The Alderwood Lions, in cooperation with the Alderwood Chamber of Commerce, Alderwood veterans groups and other service organizations ask that Alderwood residents consider sending a generous donation to the Alderwood Lions, P.O Box 1103, Alderwood, Wa. 98944. For more information about the fireworks campaign, call Smart at 837-3898 or Greg Schlieve, 882-4498"}
{"Id":"1101163323807","Title":"Working Stiff","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"5/11/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"GRANDVIEW - Although Carol Bardwell has been a guidance counselor at Grandview High School for less than a year, she has been helping students overcome both personal and academic issues for eight years. Bardwell, who previously worked as a counselor at Alderwood High School, also spent time working as an English teacher at the school. Bardwell, a Grandview High School graduate, said when it came time to earn her Master's degree she decided that counseling would be a good match for her work in the classroom. She added that after earning her Master's degree from Washington State University in the Tri-Cities she continued to teach for another three years. It wasn't until later that she pursued a job as a guidance counselor. Bardwell said her current job includes everything from working with students on both academic and personal issues, as well as helping students plan for their life after high school. It's this close tie to the students that Bardwell enjoys, noting that her favorite part of the job is working with the students. Bardwell said she is enjoying her time at Grandview High School, noting that with a student population roughly half the size of Alderwood's there seems to be a close knit feel to the school. \"I really like the size of the student body,\" she said. Bardwell also noted that the staff and administration at the building have also been very welcoming. Bardwell said when it comes to her position, she tries to keep an open door policy, which often times means pushing paperwork aside to help a student in need. She said during the course of a regular day she will typically have several meetings scheduled with either parents or students, as well as time to work on things ranging from reports to credit evaluations. When the bell rings signifying the end of the day for students, Bardwell said she is usually just getting started as far has committee meetings are concerned. She said she typically has a committee meeting of sorts after school, just about every day. Bardwell lives in Grandview with her husband Craig and their children Chet and Brendan, who are in third and second grade, respectively"}
{"Id":"1101163324041","Title":"Mabton seeks new school superintendent","Author":"John Panni","Time":"5/11/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"The Mabton School District will begin its search for a new superintendent starting next week. Current Mabton Superintendent Kevin Chase has been hired as the new head of the Grandview School District. Chase said the Mabton School District is in the process of hiring a firm to assist in the hiring of a new superintendent. He expects the process to begin next week. Chase, 42, is excited about his new job as head of the neighboring Grandview School District. \"I think I was ready for a change,\" said Chase. \"Grandview is a pretty appealing school district. I think (Grandview is) a district on the move.\" Chase replaces retiring Grandview School District Superintendent John Mathis, who has overseen the district for the past seven years. The home-grown Chase, who is a 1980 graduate of Alderwood High School, will begin his new position in Grandview July 1. Chase's last day in Mabton is June 30. Chase holds a Bachelor of Science degree in agriculture from Washington State University, where he also obtained his superintendent's credentials. Chase also obtained a Master's degree in education administration from Heritage College. In 1985 Chase took on his first teaching job in the Granger School District, where he taught agriculture until 1990. From 1990-93, Chase took over the agriculture education program in the Mabton School District. From 1993-96, Chase served as assistant principal at Alderwood High School. He then took the position of assistant superintendent in Mabton for one year before taking on his current position in 1997. Chase, though, wasn't just handed his new Grandview position. He beat out two other finalists for the position after enduring a day-long interview process in late April. Chase's interview process as one of the three finalists involved meeting with all central office staff. He also toured each building in the district and met with building administrators for one hour. Chase then met with middle and high school students for an hour, which was followed by two more hours of meeting with various teachers in the district. Chase then went through a two-hour meeting with the Grandview School Board, which was followed by an hour-long meeting with community members. One of the most apparent things that stood out for Chase during the day-long interview process was just how many people he knows in Grandview, he joked. Chase said he learned a lot of other interesting aspects about Grandview during his interview. Chase said the students, faculty and community members are very much dedicated to continuing the educational success that has taken place in the community. He also learned that the community takes great pride in its newly remodeled school buildings. Chase said he was also taken with how involved and knowledgeable the school board is. \"The board is a good board,\" said Chase. There are notable differences between the two school districts. Mabton has an enrollment of 907 students and a total staff of 105 employees. Grandview has 3,100 students and a total staff of 300. Chase leaves Mabton with several notable personal accomplishments. Chase said one of the things he is most proud of is how there is a renewed focus on instruction in the district. Chase also speaks proudly of the newly remodeled Mabton Jr./Sr. High School, complete with updated educational and athletic facilities. One of the other accomplishments Chase is proud of is the work he has done with the Gates Foundation. The school district has been the recipient of several Gates grants. Mabton is also the recipient of the Gates Achievers Grant, which assist students in furthering their education. Mabton is the only school district in the nation to receive money for both programs from the Gates Foundation, said Chase. Chase said he will miss Mabton. \"I love Mabton. It was a great place and it still is,\" said Chase. \"I am just going to be next door.\" But, he is looking forward to his new job. \"People are proud of Grandview,\" said Chase. \"The first thing I am going to do is get in and listen"}
{"Id":"1101163324557","Title":"Rams score late to oust Greyhounds from Regionals","Author":"John Panni","Time":"5/11/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"WEST VALLEY - Victory was within the grasp of a determined Grandview High School boys soccer team this past Saturday. But, the Rams rallied past the Greyhounds in the second half to come away with a 3-2 Regional tournament victory, in the process bringing an end to Grandview's season. \"We could smell it (victory),\" said Grandview Coach Anne Holden. Holden compared the game to catching butterflies. Holden said when her Greyhounds took the lead in the second half it was like they caught a butterfly in their hand. She said the game then took a turn like when a person opens their hand to look at the caught butterfly to only watch it fly away. \"We have absolutely nothing to be disappointed about,\" said Holden. \"We played very, very well. In fact, both teams played very well. It was a good game. We had our chances.\" West Valley took an early 1-0 lead on a goal at the 29th minute off a set play from a free kick. Holden said statistically the game was tightly played in the first half. West Valley outshot Grandview 4 to 3 on goal in the first half. \"West Valley had the better of the first half,\" said Holden. Holden gave a fiery talk at the break, telling her team that this would be the end of its season if it couldn't respond. The Greyhounds must have liked what they heard from their coach, as Grandview came out sizzling in the second half. Grandview's main offensive threat, Cesar Alvarez, had both of his club's goals in the second half. Alvarez scored at the 61st and 67th minutes of the game to give Grandview a 2-1 lead. But the always resilient Rams made their usual run and found a way to score a pair of goals within a five-minute span to get the win and move on to today's winner-to-state game at Cheney. Holden said West Valley scored at the 71st minute when Grandview missed its tracking assignment on one of the Rams players. Holden said the problem she had was with what her team did after the goal was scored, basically a breakdown in communication. Holden said most of her players didn't react well to the game-tying goal and kind of let down, not realizing they were still in the game. \"It doesn't matter that you made a mistake,\" said Holden. \"It is what you do after you make the mistake that matters.\" Holden said the Rams fed off the momentum from the game-tying goal and attacked Grandview's line. What worked for Grandview most of the second half was the Greyhounds were able to take field position away from the Rams. Through some repositioning of players, Holden's team was able to pound the ball at West Valley. \"We had them rocked,\" said Holden. \"We had them on their heels.\" Just how effective Holden's strategy was is reflective in the offensive statistics for Grandview. The Greyhounds had seven corner kicks in the second half to West Valley's one. Holden did say there was one opportunity late in the game where a West Valley defender brought down Alvarez when he was driving on goal. Holden said she felt Alvarez would have had a good chance at scoring, but the official didn't make the call. Holden, though, pointed out again that the game wasn't decide by the officials. Holden said both she as a coach and her team weren't used to being at that level in the postseason, which came into play in how they reacted to situations. West Valley outshot Grandview 8 to 6 on goal for the game. Juan Pacheco had five saves as Grandview keeper in his return after a head injury. Holden said it was a pleasure for her as a coach to play in a game like Saturday's contest. \"You could smell it (victory). You could taste it,\" said Holden. \"We gave it everything we had. We played our guts out.\" Grandview finishes its last season in the Mid-Valley League with a 7-8 record, which includes Saturday's postseason loss. The Greyhounds, who return to the 2A ranks next year, finished 9-8 overall. This summer the Grandview boys program will be taking part in four tournaments, including defending its Bulldog Bash title the Greyhounds won at a Pasco tournament last summer"}
{"Id":"1101163324807","Title":"Obituaries","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"5/11/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"RUBY BELLE MURPHY RUBY BELLE MURPHY Ruby Belle Murphy, 93, long-time Prosser resident, died Monday, May 10, 2004, at Prosser Memorial Nursing Home. She was born Feb. 4, 1911in Wapato, the daughter of Effie (Ackerman) and Arthur VanWye. She received her education in Wapato and graduated with the class of 1930. Following her education she went to work for the Wapato newspaper and later for Washington Fruit in Yakima. On April 12, 1942 she married Lawson Murphy in Yakima. They lived in Yakima, and later moved to Portland, Ore., where she worked as a welder in the shipyards. She returned to the Yakima Valley and made her home in Mabton and Grandview before moving to Prosser in the early 1980 s, where she made her home until the time of her death. She is survived by one daughter, Mary June and husband, Richard, of Prosser; step-daughter, June Dettbarn of Portland, Ore.; three grandchildren; three step-children; and five great-grandchildren. She was preceded in death by her parents; her husband, Lawson Murphy; one brother; and two sisters. Memorial services will be held Friday, May 14, 2004, at 11 a.m. at Grandview Church of the Nazarene. Wells Funeral Home, Grandview, is in charge of arrangements. PATTY CLARICE MORROW Patty Clarice Morrow, 90, a Alderwood resident since 1936, beloved wife, mother and grandmother, passed away Thursday, May 6, 2004, at Sun Terrace in Alderwood. Pat was born Oct. 16, 1913 in Bloomfield, Mo. to Jefferson and Hallie Hutchings. She graduated from Yakima High School in 1930 after advancing a grade. On July 19, 1936 Patty C. Hutchings married Paul O. Morrow in Yakima. They celebrated their 67th wedding anniversary in July 2003. She was a homemaker for much of her married life. Pat worked along side her husband helping operate Alderwood Tent & Awning, then on Yakima Valley Highway, from 1959 until they sold the business and retired in 1976. Pat enjoyed the family camping and fishing trips, especially those that included the three grandsons. Her sense of humor sparked those family gatherings, where she was among the first to laugh and enjoy stories and games. She was an avid gardener, and the resulting roses and other flowers were a familiar sight for 22 years at the Morrow s home along Northwest Crescent. Summer was a busy time in the kitchen, where she preserved what Paul grew in the vegetable garden. Pat was an accomplished seamstress. She spent years of leisure time crocheting afghans for family members. Every time we snuggle under one of your creations, Mother and Grandma, we will feel the love that went into it. Pat and Paul were both enthusiastic supporters of Alderwood High School athletics and rarely missed a football or basketball game. Pat was a member of Alderwood United Methodist Church, where she played an active roll in the United Methodist Women and on church committees. She served as UMW treasurer and as a church financial secretary for 30 years. She is survived by her husband, Paul of Alderwood; and two daughters, Barbara Galbraith and husband, Jim, of Alderwood and Janet Thompson and husband, Marty, of Santa Rosa, Calif. Also surviving are her sister, Daisy Dent of Mesa, Ariz.; three grandsons, Chris Thompson of Windsor, Calif., Sean Thompson of Forest Hills, N.Y. and Craig Galbraith and wife, Melissa, of Yakima. She was preceded in death by her parents, and two sisters, Cleo Hutchings and Clara Groenig. Burial will be held Friday, May 14, 2004 at 10:30 a.m. at Lower Valley Memorial Gardens, followed by a memorial service at 11:30 a.m. at Alderwood United Methodist Church. Those wishing to honor Pat s memory may contribute to Alderwood United Methodist Church or Memorial Home Care Services (Hospice). Wells Funeral Home is in charge of arrangements"}
{"Id":"1101163325041","Title":"District enrollment down in April","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"5/10/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"The Alderwood School District saw a notable drop in enrollment in the month of April. Enrollment counts for April released at last month's Alderwood School Board meeting had the district housing 5,271 full-time students. In March, the district was home to 5,310 students. Despite the drop in enrollment, the district is still above the projected amount of students it was expecting at the beginning of the year, 5,254 pupils. The district has been having an average enrollment of 5,315 students throughout the school year. The district is well above the enrollment figures it had in April 2003 of 5,141 students. Pioneer Elementary School was the only building in the district to not see a decrease in student enrollment in April. The K-4 elementary school had a March enrollment of 750 students. Pioneer Elementary finished April counts with 750 pupils. The largest class at Pioneer Elementary is the first grade class with 205 students. The most significant drop in enrollment was at Alderwood High School. High school enrollment dropped from 1,253 students in March to 1,235 students in April. The largest class of students at the high school is the freshman class with 352 students. The senior class has 274 students. Washington Elementary School had the second biggest drop in enrollment in April. March enrollment at Washington Elementary was 828. That figure dropped to 819 students for April. The largest class at Washington Elementary is the first grade group with 211 students. Enrollment at PRIDE High School fell from five students from March to April. The largest class at PRIDE is the seniors with 57 students. Outlook Elementary School also lost five students from March enrollment counts, coming in with 597 students in April. The largest cluster of students at Outlook Elementary is the first grade class with 150 students. Chief Kamiakin Elementary and Harrison Middle School saw minimal declines in students, with each school losing three pupils from the March enrollment figures. Chief Kamiakin Elementary had an April enrollment count of 915 students. The fifth grade class is the largest group at the school with 470 students. Harrison Middle School had an April enrollment of 805 students. The seventh grade class has the largest enrollment with 406 students. The first grade class is the biggest group of students in the district, totaling 566. The smallest class in the district is the kindergaretners with 227 students"}
{"Id":"1101163325275","Title":"Warm, caring words to describe Chamber health care award winner","Author":"Jamie Smart","Time":"5/10/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Raising three children, managing a small farm and working long hours at the local hospital would sap the strength of a lesser woman. But not Ruth Barry of Alderwood. The dedicated nurse, mother and grandmother of two has found time to share her abundance of nursing skills with not only her co-workers at Alderwood Community Hospital, but future nurses. Barry, who has spent the past 17 years on duty as a full-time registered nurse at Alderwood Community Hospital, is also a clinical nursing instructor at Yakima Valley Community College. In addition, she also is the nursing assistant instructor at Hillcrest Manor in Alderwood, helping student nursing assistants become certified, licensed care givers. The warm and friendly woman places her emphasis on patient care and encourages students and co-workers, alike, to be patient advocates at all times. Honest and kind nursing care are the trademarks of the Alderwood Chamber of Commerce's 2004 Health Care Person of the Year award winner. Barry, who received the Chamber award this past March, was shy about being singled out for the honor. \"There are a lot of nurses who deserve this honor. I'm touched they decided to honor me in this fashion,\" she said. Born and raised in the Yakima Valley, Barry attended nursing college in Spokane. She graduated from Eastern Washington University with Bachelor of Science degree in nursing in 1974. For a time she was employed in Wenatchee, but a decision to move back to the Yakima Valley in 1987 resulted in her becoming a fixture at Alderwood Community Hospital. Barry, who encourages her students to work hard, often is in charge of preparing hospital employee in-service training sessions. She also volunteers her time to educate young people about trauma prevention. \"I've loved working in a small hospital,\" Barry said. \"We have become a family. We all know each other's children and look out for one another,\" she said. Today, her daughter, Kristy Ann Wells, is following in her mother's footprints, studying nursing. Meanwhile, her sons are both attending college. \"Kellen will graduate from the University of Washington this year before beginning work on his Master's in accounting,\" Barry said. Her youngest child, Kenton, is a sophomore at Central Washington University, where he is also majoring in accounting. \"But I think he really wants to be a Washington State Patrol officer,\" she smiled. Barry shows no sign of retiring anytime soon, but looks forward to spending more time with her two young grandchildren. For the time being, she is content to continue to teach and maintain her nursing assignment with the local hospital. \"I love my work,\" she said"}
{"Id":"1101163339885","Title":"Forum","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"5/10/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"1-Column Read-a-thon The fifth grade students at Chief Kamiakin Elementary School, rooms 302 and 303, would like to thank sponsors for donations during our read-a-thon. The event was a huge success. More than 50 students sat in the comfortable Wal-Mart patio chairs and read for 2 to 4 hours. Wal-Mart was wonderful. Not only did they donate their location, but also provided us with cookies and cool drinks. Another special thank you to Mrs. Hicks for supplying us with homemade cookies. Thank you Alderwood for helping us raise money for our field trip, art projects for our Hillcrest grandparents and the local Relay for Life. /s/ Mrs. Erika Barrom, Mrs. Amy Peters and students"}
{"Id":"1101163340119","Title":"Tacitly yours","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"5/10/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"My husband and I recently decided to make a new addition to our little family. We decided that since we're living in a larger place, we could probably afford another little creature sharing the same roof with us. So for the past week and a half we have been living with a little black lab puppy. It has literally been years since I have had a dog and I couldn't wait to get our puppy home and start spoiling her. Truthfully, bringing home a puppy to care for has really been a new experience for both my husband and I. Before we brought Maggie home, we... well, were never really home. We spent our weekends going different places, shopping for different things and basically just not being at home. All that has changed since our puppy came home with us. All of a sudden we need to do something we've never had to do before...think about another living thing. I know it sounds bad, but when it's just the two of you, there is no one else to think about and you can pretty much do whatever you want, whenever you want. Now we have to think about things like, making sure we're home in time to feed our puppy at the regular time and ensuring that she has toys to keep her occupied. We also have to wake up a little earlier in the morning to take her outside. But having a new puppy is more than just having to take care of it and making sure it gets fed and watered. She has also been really fun, running around the yard, playing with her toys and at times just being a really sweet dog. On the other hand, it also means that we're having to teach her right from wrong, and I am beginning to see that I am nothing more than a big softy. I'm the one who wants to cave in as soon as I hear her whimpering, while my husband tells me that if we give in she's never going to learn. I know he's right, but she just looks so sad sometimes. What's really funny is how after just a week and a half Maggie has become like a part of the family. My husband and I were just discussing that last night. Over the course of just 10 days she has gone from being sad about being away from her mother and siblings to being a puppy that is happy in her new home and just wants to spend time with her new owners. We plan on keeping her as happy as she makes us"}
{"Id":"1101163340400","Title":"Obituaries for Friday May 7, 2004","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"5/10/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"AVIS B AVIS B. CRANFORD Avis B. Cranford, 77, of Alderwood died Tuesday, May 4, 2004, at Alderwood Community Hospital. She was born Dec. 7, 1926 in Rockham, S.D. to John and Melissa May (Root) Irwin. She received her early education in South Dakota. In 1941 she with her family moved to Alderwood. She attended Alderwood High School and graduated with the class of 1945. In 1947 she married Jack Cranford in Alderwood, where they together made their home. She is survived by her mother, May Irwin; one son, Keith Cranford and wife, Sherry, of Zillah; one daughter, Pat McMeans and husband, Bill, of Alderwood; two grandsons; one granddaughter; She was preceded in death by her father, Jay Irwin; and her husband, Jack Cranford. A memorial service will be held Monday, May 10, 2004, at 11 a.m. at Wells Funeral Home, Alderwood. In lieu of flowers, those wishing to honor Mrs. Cranford s memory may contribute to the American Cancer Society. Wells Funeral Home, Alderwood, is in charge of arrangements. JAMES DOUGLAS ETHRIDGE James Douglas Ethridge, 57, died Wednesday, May 5, 2004, at his home in Alderale. He was born Dec. 26, 1946 to Vernon and Violet (Hatrick) Ethridge in Roslyn. He received his education in the Alderdale, Alderwood and Prosser schools. In 1965 he enlisted in the U.S. Army serving during the Vietnam War until 1967. On May 12, 1984 he married Juanita Thompson in Grandview. Together they made their home on the family farm. He worked for two and half years at CWI Security in Yakima. He is survived by his wife, Juanita Ethridge of Mabton; one son, Robert Peterson; five daughters, Sara Borrough and husband, Perry, of Boardman, Ore., Mary Wilkenson of Mabton, Rose and husband, Mike, of Grandview, Violet Armstrong and husband, Robert, of Bellingham and Pam Kly and husband, Robert, of New York; 13 grandchildren; six brothers; and one sister. He was preceded in death by his adopted parents, Robert and Pearl Peterson; one sister; and two brothers. Viewing and visitation will be held Tuesday, May 11, 2004, from 2 to 8 p.m. at Wells Funeral Home, Alderwood. Funeral services will be held Wednesday, May 12, 2004 at 10 a.m. at Wells Funeral Home, Alderwood. ROBERT FRANCIS BAUERLE Robert Francis Bob Bauerle, 79, a Alderwood resident and businessman, passed away Tuesday, May 4, 2004, in Fountain Hill, Ariz. Bob was born in Corder, Mo., the son of Dessie (Westerfield) and Francis Bauerle. He graduated from the eighth grade in Lee Summit, Mo. and later completed his GED and a two-year college equivalency. Bob joined the Marine Corps during World War II at the age of 16 and was involved in combat operations in the South Pacific Theater including the invasion of Pelieu. On June 1, 1945, he married Darlene H. Knowlton in Yakima, where he was a service manager at Ross Lynch Motors. In 1953 Bob and Darlene moved to Alderwood, where they founded Bob s Auto Clinic and Red Barn Antiques of Alderwood. In 1974 the Bauerles began their realestate career and in 1975 received their realestate brokers license and founded Bob Bauerle and Associates Realtors of Alderwood. Bob completed his career as a realtor at Valley Investment Company. His wife, Darlene died March 7, 1994. Bob later met and married Leone on June 21, 1997. They made their home in Alderwood and Chandler, Ariz. for the last seven years. He was co-founder of Alderwood Daybreak Rotary, president of Alderwood Chamber and National Garage Owners Association of America, board member of Alderwood Rotary and a Paul Harris Fellow. Board member of Home Security Bank, Alderwood Inc, Yakima Valley Economic Development; Yakima Valley Visitors and Convention Bureau, director of the Alderwood Port Authority; He was a State President Farm Land Management; member of the Alderwood Eagle; Lower Valley Elks Lodge #2112; Kiwanis and acclaimed Alderwood Fantasy Football Association. He is survived by his wife, Leone Bauerle; son, Robert L. Bauerle; daughter, Linda Bauerle Hughes; and grandchildren, Corley Bauer Hughes, Courtney Lauren Hughes, Robert Andrew Bauerle, and Timothy John Bauerle. He was preceded in death by his wife of 47 years, Darlene Bauerle; half-brothers, Buck Willard and John Willard. Viewing and visitation will be held Monday, May 10, 2004, from 4 to 8 p.m. at Wells Funeral Home. Funeral services will be held Tuesday, May 11, 2004, at 1 p.m. at Wells Funeral Home, Alderwood. Burial will be in Lower Valley Memorial Gardens, under the direction of Wells Funeral Home. Those wishing to honor Bob s memory may contribute to the Veteran of Foreign Wars Memorial Fund in Alderwood"}
{"Id":"1101163340635","Title":"Lady Bulldogs sweep Grandview","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"5/7/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"GRANDVIEW - The Grandview Lady Greyhounds fastpitch softball team got off to a rough start Thursday afternoon against the visiting Ellensburg Bulldogs, starting the first game of the doubleheader with a first inning that included allowing six runs to cross the plate. In the end, the Grandview girls finished the doubleheader with two losses against Ellensburg, falling 15-3 in the first game and 14-6 in the second game, which was called in the fifth inning due to darkness. Grandview Head Coach Doug Hansen said although his team only had one error during the first game, it was the mental errors and not the physical ones that did in the Lady 'Hounds. He said starting off the game by giving up six runs to Ellensburg was hard, although he did note that the Grandview team was able to come back in the second and third innings to hold the Lady Bulldogs to only two more runs. However, in the fourth inning the Grandview team gave up another seven runs. \"Collectively we get our heads down,\" Hansen said. Although the Lady 'Hounds weren't able to come back in the first game, they were able to start the second game of the afternoon off on the right foot, scoring some important runs and keeping the Ellensburg team at bay. At the bottom of the third inning, the score was 5-3, with the Lady 'Hounds only trailing by two runs. Hansen said during the first three innings his team seemed relaxed and was playing well. \"The girls were looking pretty good,\" he said. Then in the fourth and fifth innings little things started to happen and the Lady 'Hounds began to lose their confidence, which led to Ellensburg scoring an additional nine runs in the fourth and fifth innings of the game. The Lady 'Hounds (0-10, 2-14) will play again Saturday, taking on the Lady Mustangs in Prosser"}
{"Id":"1101163340900","Title":"Obituaries","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"5/7/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"AVIS B AVIS B. CRANFORD Avis B. Cranford, 77, of Alderwood died Tuesday, May 4, 2004, at Alderwood Community Hospital. She was born Dec. 7, 1926 in Rockham, S.D. to John and Melissa May (Root) Irwin. She received her early education in South Dakota. In 1941 she with her family moved to Alderwood. She attended Alderwood High School and graduated with the class of 1945. In 1947 she married Jack Cranford in Alderwood, where they together made their home. She is survived by her mother, May Irwin; one son, Keith Cranford and wife, Sherry, of Zillah; one daughter, Pat McMeans and husband, Bill, of Alderwood; two grandsons; one granddaughter; She was preceded in death by her father, Jay Irwin; and her husband, Jack Cranford. A memorial service will be held Monday, May 10, 2004, at 11 a.m. at Wells Funeral Home, Alderwood. In lieu of flowers, those wishing to honor Mrs. Cranford s memory may contribute to the American Cancer Society. Wells Funeral Home, Alderwood, is in charge of arrangements. JAMES DOUGLAS ETHRIDGE James Douglas Ethridge, 57, died Wednesday, May 5, 2004, at his home in Alderale. He was born Dec. 26, 1946 to Vernon and Violet (Hatrick) Ethridge in Roslyn. He received his education in the Alderdale, Alderwood and Prosser schools. In 1965 he enlisted in the U.S. Army serving during the Vietnam War until 1967. On May 12, 1984 he married Juanita Thompson in Grandview. Together they made their home on the family farm. He worked for two and half years at CWI Security in Yakima. He is survived by his wife, Juanita Ethridge of Mabton; one son, Robert Peterson; five daughters, Sara Borrough and husband, Perry, of Boardman, Ore., Mary Wilkenson of Mabton, Rose and husband, Mike, of Grandview, Violet Armstrong and husband, Robert, of Bellingham and Pam Kly and husband, Robert, of New York; 13 grandchildren; six brothers; and one sister. He was preceded in death by his adopted parents, Robert and Pearl Peterson; one sister; and two brothers. Viewing and visitation will be held Tuesday, May 11, 2004, from 2 to 8 p.m. at Wells Funeral Home, Alderwood. Funeral services will be held Wednesday, May 12, 2004 at 10 a.m. at Wells Funeral Home, Alderwood. ROBERT FRANCIS BAUERLE Robert Francis Bob Bauerle, 79, a Alderwood resident and businessman, passed away Tuesday, May 4, 2004, in Fountain Hill, Ariz. Bob was born in Corder, Mo., the son of Dessie (Westerfield) and Francis Bauerle. He graduated from the eighth grade in Lee Summit, Mo. and later completed his GED and a two-year college equivalency. Bob joined the Marine Corps during World War II at the age of 16 and was involved in combat operations in the South Pacific Theater including the invasion of Pelieu. On June 1, 1945, he married Darlene H. Knowlton in Yakima, where he was a service manager at Ross Lynch Motors. In 1953 Bob and Darlene moved to Alderwood, where they founded Bob s Auto Clinic and Red Barn Antiques of Alderwood. In 1974 the Bauerles began their realestate career and in 1975 received their realestate brokers license and founded Bob Bauerle and Associates Realtors of Alderwood. Bob completed his career as a realtor at Valley Investment Company. His wife, Darlene died March 7, 1994. Bob later met and married Leone on June 21, 1997. They made their home in Alderwood and Chandler, Ariz. for the last seven years. He was co-founder of Alderwood Daybreak Rotary, president of Alderwood Chamber and National Garage Owners Association of America, board member of Alderwood Rotary and a Paul Harris Fellow. Board member of Home Security Bank, Alderwood Inc, Yakima Valley Economic Development; Yakima Valley Visitors and Convention Bureau, director of the Alderwood Port Authority; He was a State President Farm Land Management; member of the Alderwood Eagle; Lower Valley Elks Lodge #2112; Kiwanis and acclaimed Alderwood Fantasy Football Association. He is survived by his wife, Leone Bauerle; son, Robert L. Bauerle; daughter, Linda Bauerle Hughes; and grandchildren, Corley Bauer Hughes, Courtney Lauren Hughes, Robert Andrew Bauerle, and Timothy John Bauerle. He was preceded in death by his wife of 47 years, Darlene Bauerle; half-brothers, Buck Willard and John Willard. Viewing and visitation will be held Monday, May 10, 2004, from 4 to 8 p.m. at Wells Funeral Home. Funeral services will be held Tuesday, May 11, 2004, at 1 p.m. at Wells Funeral Home, Alderwood. Burial will be in Lower Valley Memorial Gardens, under the direction of Wells Funeral Home. Those wishing to honor Bob s memory may contribute to the Veteran of Foreign Wars Memorial Fund in Alderwood"}
{"Id":"1101163341150","Title":"Briefs","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"5/6/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"1-Column Cantwell bill would makeB Reactoran historical site WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Sen. Maria Cantwell's proposal to protect Hanford's historic B Reactor cleared the U.S. Senate Energy & Natural Resources Committee last week. Cantwell's bill directs the Secretary of the Interior to conduct a study on the potential for developing the B Reactor and other key facilities as historical sites. \"The contributions to science and country made by former Hanford workers should not be forgotten,\" said Cantwell (D-Wa.). \"We need to preserve the B Reactor so that future generations will better understand the work of our nuclear veterans, their dedication to our country and the difficult issues our country faced during the nuclear arms race era.\" Fourth District Congressman Doc Hastings (R-Pasco) has introduced similar legislation in the U.S. House. Medicare s new prescription drug cards available As of this past Monday, senior citizens were able to start signing up for Medicare's new prescription drug discount cards. The new cards are expected to offer seniors discounts on their prescription drugs of up to 25 percent. Participation in the prescription drug discount card program is voluntary. Annual fees for the cards range from free to 30. The U.S. government will pay the enrollment fees for qualifying low-income senior citizens. Seniors who choose to enroll will be able to begin using the discount cards starting June 1. George withdraws from county commissioner race Gary George, who just a short time ago announced his candidacy for Yakima County Commissioner Tim June' seat, said yesterday he was withdrawing from the race. A Yakima area businessman and community volunteer, George said the decision was in the best interest of his family and their future plans. Puget Sound strawberriesready for harvest this weekend It's been a sunny spring and that means Puget Sound fresh strawberries will be ripe and ready for market a little early this year. Puget Sound farmers are reporting early crops, with harvesting beginning as early as this coming Saturday. Those interested in traveling to the Puget Sound area to purchase the fresh berries can find sites that have the strawberries available at: www.pugetsoundfresh.org. Chinook Pass opened today At noon today (May 6), state highway crews opened Chinook Pass to motorists. This is the earliest Chinook Pass has been opened for the summer season since 1981. A combination of more efficient methods of snow removal, unseasonably warmer temperatures and below normal snowpack were what the road crews needed to complete the plowing, snow blowing and avalanche control work. Chinook Pass is designated as a National Scenic Byway, and provides an entrance to Mt. Rainier National Park. McClure school dedication ceremony planned GRANDVIEW - McClure Elementary School in Grandview will hold a building dedication and 25th anniversary celebration Tuesday, May 25. Numerous activities are planned for the ceremony, which will boast a theme of \"Our Children, Our School...Our Future.\" McClure students and their parents are invited to a barbecue that day at 6 p.m., on the playground side of the school. At 7 p.m., there will be a dedication program in the gym for all families and community members, featuring a Power Point presentation, a review of McClure's history and speeches by Mayor Mike Bren and Washington Superintendent of Public Instruction Dr. Terry Bergeson. Those responsible for the upgraded building, the architects and contractors, will also be sharing with the audience. In addition, McClure's \"Ring of Honor\" (retired staff members) will be present, and there will be a special memorial for McClure faculty members who have died. Who is Bob? Employees at more than 30 county establishments that serve adult beverages will soon be asking, \"Who is Bob?\" In this case, Bob is the designated driver. Under the direction of the Yakima County Traffic Safety Task Force, the \"Who is Bob?\" campaign kicks off this coming Friday. Patrons at the participating establishments who identify themselves as Bob, and are with two or more customers who purchase adult beverages, will be served soda free of charge. The participating establishments will have \"Who is Bob?\" posters in their windows. Of the 34 businesses that have signed up to participate in the designated driver program, several are in the Lower Alderwood Valley, including the Blue Moon Bar & Grill, Snipes Mountain Brewery, the Fairway Restaurant, the Silver Dollar, Chompi's Sports Bar, the Golden Pheasant Lounge and Mt. Adams Country Club"}
{"Id":"1101163341385","Title":"Local wine industry has arrived","Author":"Jamie Smart","Time":"5/6/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"Twenty years ago, Washington winemaker Brian Carter had a hard time convincing East Coast wine drinkers that grapes weren't being raised under umbrellas in the rainy part of the Pacific Northwest. \"We've come a long way,\" said Carter. Today, it is not unusual to see a Washington premium Merlot or Chardonnay listed on a New York City restaurant wine list, said Carter, chief winemaker and vice president of Apex Winery of Alderwood. Guest speaker at the Alderwood Kiwanis Club's Thursday morning meeting, Carter said the past 20 years of wine making in Washington have been phenomenal. When he began his career as a winemaker, there were only 2,000 acres dedicated to wine grapes in the state. This past year, more than 29,000 acres are covered with rows of some of the best wine grapes grown anywhere in the world. Carter told the club members that the production of wine grapes now ranks as the fourth largest crop in the state and contributes more than 2.4 billion worth of business to the state. \"Today there are more than 240 wineries scattered across the various growing regions of Washington,\" Carter said. He said the Yakima Valley was the state's first designated wine growing region. \"Now, we are seeing more areas applying to be named as regions, including Red Mountain and Rattlesnake Hills,\" he explained. \"You can expect to see bottles of wines in the future with labels noting growing regions such as Horse Heaven and Royal Slope,\" he predicted. Historically, wine grape have been grown in Washington state since it was a territory. Some of the earliest winemakers were from the Yakima Valley, including William Bridgman, who is honored by the Apex winery with a premium wine sporting the Bridgman label. The industry dropped out of sight during the Prohibition era to resurface again in the 1950s as a minor force on the national market, according to Carter. Since the 1960s, the state's wine industry has enjoyed renewed growth. \"In the Yakima Valley we are blessed with a desert climate which is favored by grapes,\" he explained. \"We are getting better at growing the grapes for wine, controlling the production of grapes, and adding new varieties, such as the Syrah and Viognier grapes which are proving popular among wine drinkers.\" he said. \"We are now faced with developing new marketing campaigns to attract the new wine drinkers,\" he said"}
{"Id":"1101163341619","Title":"Alderwood High School honor students who go 'above and beyond' recognized","Author":"Jamie Smart","Time":"5/6/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"Alderwood High School students expect to be singled out for honors based on their academics or performance on the athletic field. But few are ever honored for simply being great volunteers. Alderwood High School Assistant Principal Jan Schuette has decided that oversight must change. \"We have a lot of students who receive no recognition for being helpful to the point that they go 'above and beyond' what is expected of them,\" Schuette explained. In what she hopes will become a regular awards ceremony, four Alderwood High school seniors were honored last week by the Alderwood School Board for their outstanding contributions to their school. AHS seniors Tanner Kellogg, Jennifer Wells, Alaina Hull and Isley Gonzalez were cited as being exemplary examples of young people who, when asked to take on a extracurricular project, go well beyond what is required of them in order to do a good job. They were honored for special projects on which they organized and created for which they received no grade. \"These were projects that will help to improve the climate of their school,\" Schuette explained. To earn the \"Above and Beyond\" distinction, Kellogg helped Schuette put together a mini-movie, using school equipment to showcase the high school's diverse vocational-education program. \"It (the film) used \"imovie\" technology to include sound effects, music and sound for a very professional film presentation,\" Schuette said. \"His efforts were well beyond the traditional slide or power point presentation we've used in the past,\" she said. \"Tanner's work is an incredible example of film making,\" Schuette said. She presented a five-minute version of Kellogg's efforts to the Alderwood School Board last week. In addition to the five-minute board presentation, Kellogg created a longer 20-minute DVD of the film, which Schuette gave to the board members to take home to view at their leisure. Schuette plans to use Kellogg's 20-minute version for school orientation programs in the future. Schuette said the \"Above and Beyond\" award is based on the work the students did as community service projects. In the case of Gonzalez, Hull and Wells, their award was based on work they did in organizing materials in video form for the high school eighth grade transition programs. Included in their \"imovie\" presentation was a tour of the high school, interviews with principals and teachers. The movie recorded on a DVD will be used at eighth grade transition and parents night programs, Schuette said. \"It's a motivational film,\" she explained. The girls included information about club and other extra curricular activities available at the high school on the DVD. \"We are excited to be honoring these students, who are leaving a visual legacy of their skills and talents behind,\" Schuette said. \"It is also exciting to see them taking advantage of the top-notch technology we have available at our high school,\" she added. \"All four students deserve our highest praise,\" she added"}
{"Id":"1101163341854","Title":"Alderwood High School mariachi band to perform at local Cinco de Mayo fest","Author":"Melissa Browning","Time":"5/6/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"\"You don't play Peter, Paul and Mary with an electric guitar,\" said Alderwood High School band teacher Jim Sleater, explaining that just like acoustic guitars are used to create a unique American folk music sound, a mixture of trumpets, violins and nylon stringed guitars create a sound unique to mariachi music. For the past two years the school district has been offering a class in a different kind of music. It's mariachi music, a form of Mexican folk music with Swiss European um-pah influences. \"A lot of people think it came from Mexico, but that's just were it became popular,\" said Sleater. Mexican culture has added its own flair to the music. Two years ago the Wenatchee High School mariachi band performed for students in the Alderwood School District. Just before spring registration, Sleater said Alderwood School District Executive Director of School and Community Resources Ruben Carrera suggested Alderwood try starting their own mariachi band. With the encouragement of high school principal Dennis Birr, the first time mariachi band was offered as an elective the fall of 2002. \"We thought maybe we'd get a dozen kids,\" said Sleater. \"Well, 30 kids signed up.\" With a full class of students, most of whom had never picked up an instrument, Sleater had to look for someone who could help start the class off right. With 30 years of music education under his belt, he knew what a mariachi band was supposed to sound like, but had never taught a class in mariachi. \"We had kids, but we didn't have any instruments,\" said Sleater. With the help of Luis Constansio of Texas Tech, the newly formed band learned the basics of playing and learned what really makes a mariachi band. Although a mariachi band is normally seven people at the largest, Sleater's band includes 36 students this year. \"In the future it may take on a different look, but this is how it is for right now,\" said Sleater. Most of the time the musicians playing the music are also the singers, but Sleater has a separate set of singers to perform. A mariachi band is characterized by the intermixing of guitars, violins, accordions, trumpets and occasionally a harp. As the program develops the youths are becoming more familiar with the instruments. \"The kids know the songs,\" said Sleater. \"Since I don't speak Spanish I don't know what the words are saying, but we get a catalogue of the songs available and I go through it with the kids. They let me know what are good songs. \"We now understand we need to start a group in the middle school, so by the time they get to the high school they are veteran players,\" said Sleater. More than anything, the mariachi band has been a way to get students into the music program, who haven't been involved in the past. \"Ninety-five percent of the kids in this program didn't come from band and they didn't come from choir,\" said Sleater. \"We're just glad we can provide a musical opportunity for them, learning a type of music they like. \"It's great seeing the kids interested in learning music. When it's time to clean-up at the end of class they don't want to go. They say, one more song, one more song. \"It's been fun for me to learn a new style and new songs,\" Sleater added. \"I find myself singing them all the time at home.\" The Alderwood High School mariachi band, which just recently purchased new uniforms, will be performing at the Alderwood Cinco de Mayo celebration Saturday, May 8, at noon. They will be performing in Centennial Square"}
{"Id":"1101163342119","Title":"Pathway seeks volunteers","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"5/4/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"The Lower Valley Pathway Foundation is seeking groups or individuals interested in adopting a section of the Yakima Valley Pathway for spring clean-up. The Foundation is hoping interested groups will volunteer to help maintain the pathway which stretches between Alderwood and Grandview, along Yakima Valley Highway, said Rudy Slupsky, a pathway spokesperson. \"We are also looking for people interested in serving on our board of directors,\" he added. Those interested are encouraged to call Slupsky at 837-3342. More AHS senior project judges needed Alderwood High School senior project coordinator Trish Nixon is anxious to fill all of the slots for her senior projects judging panel. \"We need 40 more judges to help evaluate the class of 2004's projects,\" Nixon said. The judging will be held Tuesday and Wednesday, May 11 and 12, at the high school from 4 to 7 p.m. \"We need people who can work one or both days,\" she said. Nixon said completion of a senior project is part of the seniors' graduation requirements. Those interested in seeing the type of projects chosen by the students are asked to call Nixon at Alderwood High School, 837-2601, to volunteer"}
{"Id":"1101163356001","Title":"Torch scandal","Author":"John Panni","Time":"4/30/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Political wags in Alderwood are excitedly discussing the impact of steamy photos taken of Mayoral democratic candidate John Torch with an unidentified young brunette woman late one evening at a Tri-Cities Starbucks. Torch, married with 4 children, has not commented on the incriminating pictures. Hawk Press has obtained copies of these pictures, but following company policy, will not publish them. Incumbent mayor Rex Luther characterized the scandal as \"unfortunate\". \"Moral values are key to anyone wishing to assume a position of leadership and responsibility,\" he added. Sources have identified the woman as an employee of Boynton Laboratories. Laurel Sulfate, spokeswoman for the laboratory, was unavailable for comment, currently vacationing in Switzerland. An assistant to Sulfate stated that she \"will look into the matter upon her return"}
{"Id":"1101163356447","Title":"Alderwood PD trains reservists","Author":"Melissa Browning","Time":"5/4/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"This past January, 15 people from around the Valley and as far away as Yakima and the Tri-Cities started making bi-weekly trips to Alderwood to learn the ins and outs of law enforcement from Alderwood and Grandview police officers, Washington State Patrol troopers and a prosecuting attorney. In the past those who wanted to be reserve officers have had to travel to Yakima or the Tri-Cities to attend six months of classes required to be a reserve officer. With budget crunches in small communities across the state, police departments are depending on reserves to help fill gaps and provide extra police coverage in town. In Alderwood, the reserves have always played a key role in helping with special projects or events the police department has undertaken, whether or not the budget was tight, said Captain Bill Bank of the Alderwood Police Department. They were crucial in curbing the downtown gang problem and also helped cut down on cruising in the downtown, he said. The Alderwood Police Department requires active reserves to volunteer at least 16 hours a month. At the beginning of the year no reserve academies were planned, so the Alderwood Police Department stepped forward to return the favor and host the classes, said Bank. \"We have a very good core of instructors right now,\" said Bank. \"We have spent a lot of time and investment in our officers and we thought it would be a good opportunity to teach.\" Class organizer Sgt. Jeff Cunningham of the Alderwood Police Department added, \"We've had our own reserves who have needed to go to academy.\" The class started with 15 members, but one of the students left when she was hired by the Wapato Police Department as a paid officer, said Cunningham, adding that she will now be attending the state academy in Burien. Beside reserves from Alderwood and Grandview, reservists are training to work with the sheriff's office, city police departments throughout the Valley, Yakama Tribal Gaming Commission and the Victim's Witness Unit for the Yakima prosecutor's office, said Cunningham. Reserve trainees are learning defensive tactics, ethics, criminal and courtroom procedures, communication skills, criminal law, crisis intervention, patrol procedures, traffic laws, use of force, firearms, CPR and first aid, emergency vehicle operations, criminal investigation and pepper spray, according to Cunningham. The reserves test and will have to perform in mock scenes before the class is completed. The final test is the state exam, which is for state certification. \"When they graduate they will be a state certified officer for their department,\" said Cunningham. \"When they're on duty they're like any other officer. They have the power and authority to give tickets and put people in jail. \"A lot of these guys are taking the academy with the future hope of becoming an officer.\" The class meets every Wednesday and Saturday, but there have also been several Sunday classes held to provide the reserves with additional practice. The class will be completed by the end of May"}
{"Id":"1101163356450","Title":"Laboratory Groundbreaking","Author":"John Panni","Time":"5/5/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"Gov. Gary Locke joined Mayor Rex Luthor, Dr. Philip Boynton, and the Alderwood City Council in breaking ground for the 25 million Boynton Laboratories facility. More than 200 people attended the event, held on the site of the new building at the Boynton campus in Alderwood. \"This remarkable facility is another example of our overall commitment to protect, preserve and restore the safety of our food and the health of Americans across the land,\" said Governor Locke. \"Just imagine what this tremendous new facility will mean for Washington's future. We know the scientific breakthroughs that will be achieved here will further our understanding of fundamentals of biology and help us develop the necessary methods for curing mad cow disease.\""}
{"Id":"1101163356500","Title":"FDA starts investigation of Boynton","Author":"John Panni","Time":"4/16/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"When the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) announced it was beginning an investigation of Alderwood's Boynton Laboratories, a pioneering prion research lab yesterday, the timing seemed a bit off. British researchers had just identified a second case of variant Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (vCJD) transmitted through a blood transfusion. The UK Medical Research Council is set to launch a trial of potential vCJD treatments, but there are no such trials in the US. A report released last winter by the National Academy of Sciences says the US research program on prion diseases is \"small, aging, and inadequately funded, except with a possible shining star in new Boynton Laboratories...\" The FDA quickly responded that the lab's investigation is meant to address scientific concerns, not exacerbate political ones. Boynton Laboratories, founded in 2002, is focused on finding cures for prion diseases, says Laurel Sulfate, spokeswoman for the institution. Alderwood Mayor Rex Luthor called the investigation \"outrageous\" and called for the FDA to become \"a partner in progress, not a bureaucratic impediment to the nation's health and well-being"}
{"Id":"1101163356713","Title":"Alderwood awards legal bids to Alderwood Daily News","Author":"John Panni","Time":"5/4/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"At Monday's meeting, the Alderwood City Council unanimously approved the Alderwood Daily News to serve as the official newspaper for the City of Alderwood for 2004. This means the Alderwood Daily News will publish all legal notices for the city. In March Council voted to reject the then lone bid of the Alderwood Daily News to serve as the city's official newspaper. Council voted to reopen the bid process because some of its members felt that the city had sent out the wrong message a few years ago with the legal publication process. The hometown Alderwood newspaper has served as the legal newspaper of the city since its inception. This time around, the city received just two bids to serve as the legal newspaper for the city. One of the bids was from the Alderwood Daily News and the other was from the Yakima Herald-Republic. The Alderwood Daily News submitted the same bid it did during the initial process in March of 6.70 per column inch. The Yakima Herald-Republic submitted two separate bid amounts. The first amount was for 6.48 per column inch for the weekly Thursday publication Voices. The Herald-Republic also submitted a bid amount of 11.66 per column inch, if published in the regular daily section. Assistant City Manager/City Attorney Bruce Rinz said he did an analysis for Council based on past legal publications. In his report, Rinz cited the lead time of each publication as a factor to consider. The Alderwood Daily News offered a lead-time of 24 hours, but has been able to publish notices on a shorter time frame. The Herald-Republic requires legal notices to be in its office by noon on Monday for Voices and three business days prior to publication in the regular section of the newspaper. In his report, Rinz noted city staff wouldn't be able to meet the Herald-Republic's deadline for publishing notices of cancelled meetings in the Voices section and would have to pay more money to have them inserted into the daily section. Rinz's final analysis showed the city would have paid 36 less with the Alderwood Daily News had it published its legal notices in the Voices publication last year. \"The research Mark has given has allowed us to compare apples to apples,\" said newly sworn in City Manager Robert Rockford. Rockford touched on how there are benefits for the city to do business with the local paper. He said the Alderwood Daily News submitted the lowest bid and has always assisted the city on short notice, so he recommended Council accept the bid. Councilman Jim Sarducci also praised city staff for its work. Sarducci said while he doesn't always see eye-to-eye with what is written in the Alderwood Daily News, he wanted to keep the legal publication notices in the community with the local newspaper. \"I for one am glad we have a comparison,\" said Councilman Tom Seeger. \"I said I would vote for the lowest bid and I am voting for the lowest bid.\" Seeger reminded Council the city will be going through the bid process again in January, as required by state law. Councilwoman Jennie Angel said she is glad the Council decided to keep the legal publications with the Alderwood Daily News. She said the local newspaper has always done a good job of promoting events in the community. Mayor Pro-tem George Greenway wasn't as cordial about accepting the recommendation of city staff. Greenway said Council has set a precedent for doing business with the local newspaper. Greenway said his biggest area of concern with the Alderwood Daily News is from the editorial area. Greenway said he doesn't agree with many of the editorial comments placed in the newspaper. \"I think we have the low bid and we just have to take it,\" said Greenway"}
{"Id":"1101163356947","Title":"Educator ready for new adventures","Author":"Jamie Smart","Time":"5/3/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"After 28 years of going to school, Stan Davis of Alderwood is ready for a change of direction. In June, the Alderwood Pioneer Elementary School principal will turn in his keys and close the door of his principal office that has been his daily destination for nearly 18 of those 28 years. Davis, who started his education career in the Prosser School District, started teaching fourth graders in Alderwood 27 years ago. \"I only taught fourth grade for two years,\" he said. It wasn't long before Davis realized he much preferred the classroom interaction with sixth graders. \"I like that grade the best,\" he said. \"You can get sixth graders to do anything, if you let them think it's their idea,\" he grinned. But being a classroom teacher wasn't the only area of education which interested the Indiana native. He began his move to administration in the early 1980s, serving his administrative internship under then Chief Kamiakin Elementary School Principal Kieth Miller, who retired a short time later. In 1986 Davis settled into his new duties as the principal of Chief Kamiakin Elementary school, where sixth, fifth and fourth graders were greeted by his sunny smile each day for 10 years. In 1995, Davis moved to the newly constructed Pioneer Elementary School, where he greeted a younger group of students. Pioneer is home to kindergarten through fourth grade students, but the friendly, daily greetings to students by \"Mr. Davis\" have remained the same. His easy-going personality and rapport with the students, as well as the Pioneer Elementary School teaching and office staff, resulted in his recent nomination as one of two outstanding educators honored by the Alderwood Chamber of Commerce this past March. Davis said he was pleased to share the Chamber's Outstanding Educator Award with one of his favorite teachers, Rose Hall, a fourth grader teacher who also works at Pioneer Elementary. \"It was a shock when they announced my name and a great honor to be recognized by the Chamber and my staff,\" he said. Now looking forward to a well deserved retirement, Davis said he won't be spending all of his time golfing, one of his favorite hobbies, or traveling. \"I expect I'll find something to keep me busy. I think I'm ready to try something different, some new career challenge,\" he said. Accepting new challenges is has kept Davis interested in education all these years, he said. \"I love working with the teachers, the administration and of course the students. \"It's just now time for a change,\" he said"}
{"Id":"1101163357229","Title":"Briefs","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"4/30/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"1-Column Men's slowpitch association meeting set The Lower Valley Men's Slowpitch Association will meet Tuesday, May 4, at 6 p.m. at Chompis' Sports Bar. Team and players' fees will be collected during the meeting. Games for the season are scheduled to begin May 17. For more information call Bob Sarmiento Sr. at 836-2236 or 830-5727. Prosser Farmers Market opens this Saturday PROSSER - Saturday, May 1, marks the opening of the Prosser Farmers Market, which is located on Sommer Street in Prosser, next to the city park and library. The market, which is open from 8 a.m. to 1 p.m. every Saturday, offers people a place to purchase different wares from the more than 10 vendors who are expected to fill the street. Items for sale include everything from nursery plants to garden crafts and furniture. The Kiwanis Club will be offering breakfast at the market. The breakfast is a fund-raiser for the Prosser organization"}
{"Id":"1101163357463","Title":"Alderwood jazz teacher scores high at Denver dance contest","Author":"Jamie Smart","Time":"4/30/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"A 17-hour cross country road trip with three small boys would have been enough exertion for most young mothers, but not for energetic Kristine Gimlin of Prosser. She not only made the trip to Denver, Colo. this past weekend, she donned dance shoes to compete against more than 500 hip hop dancers. Like her fellow dancers, Gimlim was competing for Monster of Hip Hop dance scholarships and other honors at the Colorado contest, held April 24-25. Gimlim, who teaches jazz classes at Alderwood's Martin School of Dance, earned the right to attend the Denver contest while competing in a national hip hop contest in Seattle last month. The petite dancer not only competed, she placed among the top 20 dancers performing at the contest. The ranking earned her an invitation to advance to yet another national contest, said Martin School of Dance owner Linda Martin. Gimlin's employer and mentor, Martin, said Gimlin has been invited to audition at the Monster Hip Hop contest to be held in Orlando, Fla. Aug. 14-15. Gimlin, who in March was spotted by national talent scouts while dancing at the Westlake Dance Center in Seattle, said the Denver contest was really rough. \"I thought the Seattle Monster contest was tough, but it was nothing like Denver,\" she said. \"There were a lot of really talented people in Denver and I was really nervous,\" she said. \"But I didn't give up,\" said the petite, young woman, who claimed she make it into the top 20 \"by the skin of my teeth.\" Gimlin auditioned with more than 500 other dancers from around the nation at the Colorado event. She said the top six dancers received scholarships to study dance at the Broadway Dance Center in New York City. Another six dancers earned free air fare and tuition to attend the Orlando dance competition. \"The rest of us were invited to try again, she explained. Gimlim said her ranking in the top 20 dancers at the Denver event gave her a lot of personal satisfaction. \"It means I will be able to attend future contests as a teacher. I'll be able to take my students to the hip hop contests, opening new doors for them,\" she explained. \"We have a lot of talented dancers here in Alderwood and I want to help them go to the next level,\" she said"}
{"Id":"1101163357697","Title":"Grizzly linksters pick up two wins","Author":"Bob Story","Time":"4/30/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"Talk about a team effort, the Alderwood High School boys golf team could have provided an instructional video yesterday. Firing on all cylinders, the Grizzly linksters defeated both West Valley and Ellensburg to move their Mid-Valley League record to 4-1 on the season. Alderwood tallied a 315 team score, edging the Rams by six strokes and clipping the Bulldogs by 10. Although it took a true team effort to score the two conference victories at Alderwood's Black Rock Creek Golf Course, the hero of the day might have been Zack Hathaway. Golfing in the No. 5 spot for the Grizzlies, Hathaway was still out on the course when Alderwood's top four golfers were sitting in the clubhouse comparing scorecards. Because of an uncharacteristic blow-up by Ryan Webster, who finished with a 98, the Alderwood squad knew Hathaway had to post a score below 90 to have a shot at earning a sweep. \"We were all waiting at the clubhouse,\" said Alderwood Coach Glenn Braman. \"We all knew Zach had to be in the mid-80's for us to get the win. \"It was a bit nerve wracking,\" he said. When Hathaway finished his round and made his way to his teammates, they quickly learned he had come through big. The 84 on his scorecard was well below what he needed to shoot to get the Grizzlies the team victory. Hathaway might have gotten an early clue that Thursday was going to be his day. On the par-4 fourth hole, after lacing his drive to within 115 yards of the green, he knocked his approach shot out-of-bounds. Taking a penalty stroke and a drop, Hathaway swung again from 115 yards out. This time, the ball flew straight, and miraculously, he holed the shot to save par. Heroics aside, Alderwood couldn't have defeated perenially tough West Valley without some superb play from its other team members. And no one came through bigger than junior Kevin Lick, who shared medalist honors on the day with the Rams' Bobby Elder. Both golfers carded even-par 72's. Lick parred every hole on the front side, and birdied two after the turn to negate his lone blow-up on the back nine-a double bogey. He needed a bird on the finishing 18th to tie Elder for medalist honors, which he got by reaching the green in two and one-putting. \"Another super round by Kevin,\" said Braman. \"It seems like he's always there in the low 70's for us.\" Alderwood senior Chris Trammel also picked a great time to shoot his first sub-80 round of the season. The easy-going, free swinging Trammel turned in a workman-like four-over 40 on the first nine holes of play. He lowered his score to a 39 on the back side. \"Chris's 79, that's the first time he's been under 80 for us this year,\" said Braman. \"I'm real happy with how Chris is playing. \"The more relaxed he is, the better he hits the ball. \"Every kid is different out there, but the key for Chris is staying relaxed,\" said Braman. \"He came up big for us.\" Alderwood's No. 2 golfer, junior Andrew Schutt, didn't exactly get off to one of his better starts yesterday. Schutt ran into trouble early on and couldn't right the ship, finishing the front nine with a seven-over 43. \"When I saw Andrew out there, he was noticeably upset,\" said Braman. \"He was mentally beating himself up, and he let it snowball a little bit.\" The gutsy linkster recovered admirably, though, touring the back side of Black Rock with a one-over 37. Birdies on 14 and 17 helped turn Schutt's game around, giving him a respectable 80 for the day. Webster's 98 (43-55) and a 104 by Jeramie Drollinger weren't applied towards Alderwood's team score. Only the four best individual scores are used for team play. The Grizzly golfers were scheduled to leave at 10 a.m. this morning to compete at the Pendleton Invitational. Alderwood will then close out regular season play on Thursday, May 13, at the Yakima Elks course against Wapato and Selah"}
{"Id":"1101163358291","Title":"Briefs","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"4/29/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"1-Column Car washfund-raiserset for May 8 Alderwood Christian High School student David Elerding will hold a fund-raising car wash Saturday, May 8, at the Alderwood Wal-Mart store from 9 a.m. to 2 p.m. Monies raised from donations will be used to fund his trip to Australia with the Sports Tours USA team to play soccer. Elerding's overseas trip is planned for July of this year"}
{"Id":"1101163358525","Title":"Alderwood School Board decides on uses for I-728 monies","Author":"John Panni","Time":"4/29/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"The Alderwood School Board decided this past Tuesday night on how to spend the money it receives from the state as part of Initiative 728. I-728 was overwhelmingly supported by state voters, passing with a 72 percent approval rate in November 2000. The purpose of the money is to provide additional funding to help students reach new academic standards. Alderwood School District Superintendent Dr. Aaron Bones pointed out Tuesday night that districts more often than not have to use I-728 money to supplement other areas that the state has reduced funding in. Every school district in the state is required to annually hold a public meeting to receive comments on what to do with I-728 funds. There are strict uses for I-728 dollars. The monies may be used to reduce class sizes in grades kindergarten through fourth. Money may also be used to make selected class size reductions in grades five through 12. The state funding may also be used to provide extended learning opportunities for students. Alderwood School District Executive Director of Business Dave Plesha said I-728 monies may also be used to provide professional development for educators and make improvements or additions to school facilities that assist in reducing class size and extending learning opportunities. The money for funding voter-approved I-728 comes from state property tax and any excess funds from the state's emergency reserve. Next school year will also be the final year funding comes from state lottery sales. When the state started allocating I-728 funds to school districts during the 2001-02 school year, Alderwood received 194 per student. Next school year, the district will receive 254 per student. Plesha said that is far less than the projected 450 per student districts were expected to receive from the state next year. He also said the district could receive even less money depending on state funding situations. Plesha presented the board with an outline of how he wants to use the 1.3 million the district is expected to receive in I-728 funding next year. Plesha has set aside 672,783 to assist in the reduction of class sizes at all grades throughout the district. He has also increased the amount of funds each building principal receives for professional development from 87,000 to 100,000. Plesha has also set aside 404,277 to assist in professional development for district staff during inservice days. Another 40,000 has been allocated for extended learning opportunities, such as after-school programs. Plesha said there is another 152,000 sitting in a pool that can be used for indirect costs, such as extended day opportunities and field trips. Plesha said additional monies could go to these programs if there is any unused funds left from other areas. Sandra Linde provided the lone public comment Tuesday night. She said she wanted to see the district use the I-728 funds to reduce class sizes even further. She also wanted more funds for teacher development. The Alderwood directors approved Plesha's plan of spending. School board member Bill Wells expressed some concern about the 152,000 the district has reserved for indirect costs, such as field trips. The issue Wells had was he didn't like seeing that much money allocated for programs such as field trips. Wells said he sees the value in field trips and other learning enhancement programs outside the classroom. But, Wells said he feels students aren't spending enough time in the classroom. Wells said he wants to discuss the issue even more this summer, but added the 152,000 should go into other areas like reducing class size"}
{"Id":"1101163358760","Title":"Canine Parvo Virus outbreak suspected in Lower Valley dogs","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"4/29/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"The City of Grandview Animal Control officer reports an unusually large number of sick dogs being impounded. The symptoms displayed by these canines, said Animal Control Officer Luis Valdez, indicate the strong possibility of Parvo Virus. Though there have been previous cases of Parvo in Grandview, they have been limited. This particular occasion, the higher numbers of possible infection lead the Grandview Police Department to believe it may see significantly more problems. Valdez said over the last week, his department has picked up and identified perhaps as many as eight dogs that are likely victims of Parvo Virus. The first signs of Canine Parvo Virus may be loss of appetite, depression, fever, vomiting, and/or severe diarrhea in the animal. These symptoms may present themselves roughly five to seven days after the dog is exposed to the virus. After onset, most deaths of animals will occur within 48 to 72 hours. Valdez said people need to understand that these symptoms may be caused by other factors not related to Parvo; however, Valdez said if a dog exhibits these problems its owners should probably seek veterinary assistance as soon as possible. Puppies and dogs can contract the Parvo Virus even if they never leave their yards. It can be transported to them via people's shoes, hands, car tires, other animals, or even birds who feed in the dog's dish. The Canine Parvo Virus itself is not what usually causes death in the animal. Rather, it is caused by the severe dehydration and lack of food during the illness. The illness is transmitted by oral ingestion of viral contaminated feces. It is not airborne. Parvo Virus is highly contagious and extremely hardy. The incidence of disease is highest in puppies and younger dogs. Not all dogs in a litter, or even different dogs kenneled together, show signs of infection or disease. This has a great deal to do with the maternal protection passed to a puppy, by way of mother's milk, within the first 24 hours of life. Some puppies get the protection. Some may not. Though it is not difficult to sterilize a particular area, it is extremely important that the entire surrounding ground and/or structures are treated, said Valdez. This can be done with a simple household chlorine bleach solution as a disinfectant. The appropriate mixture is suggested as 1 part bleach to 10 parts water or stronger. Thoroughly wet the infected area with this solution, paying particular attention to the hard-to-get-to nooks and crannys, said Valdez. The City of Grandview Animal Control Department is generally unable to pick up or house animals likely infected with Parvo Virus. Valdez said the constant re-contamination of the Grandview facility would make it impossible to maintain a working ability to house any animals at all. Valdez reminds pet owners it is their responsibility to care for their animal if it is ill. Those with additional questions should call 882-2000"}
{"Id":"1101163359025","Title":"Camay seeks second county commisioner term","Author":"Jamie Smart","Time":"4/28/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"TOPPENISH - Standing near the Toppenish railroad station platform, Yakima County Commissioner Tom Camay announced his platform for re-election as a county commissioner Tuesday afternoon. The first-term commissioner said he wants to continue to support efforts to bring more new businesses and jobs into Yakima County, as well as working to develop more interlocal partnerships between the county and its citizens. A long-time Toppenish farmer and businessman, Camay said he will continue to use his background in agri-business to help the county adjust to the county's ongoing budget crisis. \"I will be working to include more citizen input in aiding the commissioners in making the hard choices we are facing in county spending,\" he added. \"We need the citizens' input to helps us make cuts in areas which we have control over. \"We are mandated to provide certain health and safety coverage but there are areas such as parks and extension services which we can cut. \"But we need the citizens' opinions about what should be omitted from the budget. I feel cuts should be up to the people,\" Camay said. \"I plan to encourage the development of a new citizens' task force to help the commissioners meet the Valley's budgetary needs,\" Camay said. In addition, Camay said he hopes to optimize the county's existing resources to promote economic development in the county. He said the use of partnerships in the past has aided the county in attracting new businesses to the county, such as the Wal-Mart distribution center in Grandview. \"We need to use all our resources to develop more partnerships in order to bring more job and business growth opportunities to the county,\" he said"}
{"Id":"1101163373432","Title":"Dogs threatening kids on school grounds","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"4/28/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"A tragedy was averted on school grounds this morning when a pit bull grabbed hold of a Alderwood first grader. Alderwood Police Officer Chico Rodriguez said the latest dog incident on school grounds resulted in no serious injuries, \"...but we've had dog bites before,\" he said. This morning, said Rodriguez, the pit bull in question only got ahold of the boys' trousers. \"But it could have been worse,\" said Rodriguez. \"Every day there's dogs out there,\" Rodriguez continued. \"It's a safety issue.\" The local police department is asking dog owners to secure their pets, or kennel them, so school-age children are not in danger of being bitten. The pit bull that nipped at the first grade boy this morning was located and picked up by an animal control officer. Rodriguez said the dog will be taken to Yakima, and its owner must contact the proper authorities to gain its release"}
{"Id":"1101163373682","Title":"Greyhounds breeze by Bulldogs","Author":"John Panni","Time":"4/28/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"GRANDVIEW - Senior night for the Grandview High School boys soccer team was indeed a true celebration. With winds whipping around the Grandview players, the seven Greyhound seniors basked in the limelight, as accolades rolled down for their past and present contributions. Despite the conditions looking like something out of a disaster movie, the Greyhounds still managed to put together a decent little game, as they flew by visiting Ellensburg 3-0. \"The wind was swirling,\" said Grandview Coach Anne Holden. \"There were very difficult playing conditions.\" Holden brought up her seniors on the JV squad to play in the varsity game last night. The Greyhounds scored early on in the third minute of the opening half when freshman Abel Meraz scored off an assist by Cesar Alvarez. Grandview carried a 1-0 lead into the break. Alvarez then popped in another goal for the Greyhounds at the 57th minute. Fernando Angel had the assist. The last goal truly made the game worthwhile, said Holden. One of her seniors on the junior varsity team, Jose Barriga, scored at the 65th minute off an assist by Kevin Glasenapp. Grandview dominated offensive play, outshooting Ellensburg 10 to 2 on goal. Greyhound keeper Gustavo Martinez had two saves while Ellensburg keeper Jacob Quint finished with seven saves. Holden said her team played very well last night. Ellensburg basically went with a defensive scheme, going five-to-six players deep in the box. Holden credited her team with being patient in the difficult conditions. Grandview was able to break through the Bulldog defense by playing a controlled type of game. Holden said her players would hold on to the ball, forcing Ellensburg to come out of its set. When the Greyhounds saw the opening, they would attack offensively. Holden was also pleased with the way her team kept its composure on senior night. She said with the celebration it is easy to get distracted, but her players remained focused. \"They played very well, considering,\" said Holden. Grandview (6-6, 7-7) will finish the continuation of this past Saturday's game at Wapato tonight (Wednesday). Saturday's game was called because of a concussion Greyhound keeper Juan Pacheco sustained. Tonight's game will be played in Wapato at about 6 p.m. Both teams have to wait until track practice is done at Wapato High School. The game will pick up from where it left off on Saturday. The Greyhounds were ahead 3-1 with eight minutes left in the first half when Pacheco sustained his injury. Grandview will then end its regular season at home Saturday afternoon against Alderwood. \"It should be a great game Saturday,\" said Holden. \"I am looking forward to it"}
{"Id":"1101163373916","Title":"Working Stiff","Author":"Melissa Browning","Time":"4/27/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"Kathy Williams' love for youth goes beyond looking at their physical limitations to see students struggling and succeeding in spite of their difficulties. For 20 years Williams has been a para-educator for the Alderwood School District, working in the Learning Assistance Center (LAC) room at the high school. She has worked with special needs students needing speech therapy, has served as a Special Olympics assistant coach and has taught a student basic life skills class. \"If it's got to be done, I just jump in and do it,\" said Williams. Before Williams started in a full-time position with the school district, she volunteered testing youngsters, screening them for dyslexia and comprehension. \"They were looking to find things they could spot before they were put in a class,\" said Williams. She was approached by Cathy Mears to consider being a substitute para-educator for the school district. \"I was recovering after falling off a house and I said, sure, but I can't walk,\" said Williams. After recovering, Williams began substituting in each of the schools in the district. At the end of her first year subbing, three positions became available, including the one for a para-educator in the LAC room at Alderwood High School. \"I felt kind of pulled to the job at the high school,\" said Williams. Her first class had about nine students. \"I've had up to 16 in my class with two in wheelchairs,\" she said. Now the class is closer to her first class with eight students. As a para-educator, Williams works with students on speech, reading and in the past she has even taught some signing. With a small class, Williams is able to provide one-on-one help with homework, but her job entails more than the average high school class. \"We teach them how to brush their teeth and how to brush their hair,\" said Williams. \"Life skills they will need after they get out of school.\" She said that students have to be able to read basic signs and know some math so they aren't taken advantage of in the real world. \"They have to go into a restaurant and order and pay for food,\" said Williams. She said they also have to learn their phone number so they can ask for help if they are lost, how to purchase items and find the price of them, and even how to cross a street. \"They cook sometimes in here,\" she said of the LAC room, which has a small kitchen facility. \"These kids are learning things they're going to need in the outside world,\" she added. \"I always felt like I'm here on a mission,\" said Williams. While some days are more difficult than others, \"...some days you can take 40 steps backward,\" she said it is worth it to see the joy on her students' faces when they accomplish something. \"They get so excited when they do something they've never been able to do on their own before,\" said Williams. \"They're not afraid or reserved. They will try anything.\" She believes that helping special needs students is a calling in life that is worthwhile. \"There's probably a lot of other things I would like to do,\" said Williams. \"But who's going to do this for them. Who's going to fight for them. Who's going to stand up for them"}
{"Id":"1101163374150","Title":"Mabton's success with AP program to be detailed at national meeting","Author":"Jamie Smart","Time":"4/27/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"MABTON - The Mabton Jr./Sr. High School teaching staff's unique approach to offering Mabton's college bound students upper level courses will be shared with other small schools at the National College Board's Western Regional Small Schools Conference to be held in San Jose, Calif. later this week. \"We are one of only two small school districts being asked to share our advanced placement success story at the small schools summit,\" said Mabton School District Superintendent Kevin Chase. He said the College Board is responsible for the development of the PSAT and SAT examinations used by colleges to rank students seeking college entrance. He said the Mabton Jr./Sr. High School staff, led by English teacher Tamara Steen, has been working for the past several years to create a method of offering advanced studies to more of its students. In the process, the staff has begun to reach down to the junior high grades to create a variety of approaches to attract the imagination of those students wishing to excel. Steen will explain how the small school is now able to offer its juniors and seniors college- level English classes. Steen will also explain how the process of co-mingling the juniors and seniors in a two-year advance placement plan is being adapted at the middle school level. She said work is now being done to create advanced programs for math and science through the use of the district's summer academy program. She said the summer academy program gives those students who are showing potential for advanced learning a six-week enhanced course of study. \"We are having exciting results with this approach and our students are becoming very competitive about being in the AP programs,\" Steen said. Attending the conference to be held April 29 and 30 will be Steen, Chase, Mabton High School Principal Keith Morris and Bob Thomas, high school counselor"}
{"Id":"1101163374650","Title":"Working Stiff","Author":"Melissa Browning","Time":"4/23/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"Surprisingly, Vancouver has one of the largest Russian populations in the state. The small community of Blaine also has a large Russian population, while the Soap Lake area has a community of Ukrainian descendants and Raymond has a large Asian population. These are all groups served by the recruiters and trainers for the Migrant Student Data and Recruitment Office (MSDR), which has its main office in Alderwood on the second floor of the Lincoln Building. For 12 years Rachel Carrera, the daughter of migrant farm workers, has been a recruiter and trainer for MSDR. Born in Montana, Carrera's parents worked the sugar beet fields before moving to Eastern Washington. It's children, not that unlike herself, she serves on a daily basis, providing them with information on services available to migrant workers and options for them to earn their education. A Alderwood native, Carrera moved back to the Lower Valley 12 years ago after a year of living and working as a teacher and a nanny to 24 children living at an orphanage in Ocozocoautla, Chiapas, Mexico. Chiapas is the poorest state in Mexico, said Carrera, adding that the state bordering Guatemala is also the least educated in the country. \"When I left in 1991 they were building the first shopping center in the capital of Chiapas,\" said Carrera. \"Most people didn't have refrigerators, stoves or running water.\" She moved to Mexico after living in Portland, Ore. for nine years. \"I wanted to serve the Lord in another aspect, so I sold my house, bought a car and left,\" she said. \"I had the only Toyota in the whole state of Chiapas,\" said Carrera. \"There were a lot of things about me that stood out.\" After a year and a half Carrera returned to the United States. \"My mother was growing older and she was concerned about me living in Mexico by myself,\" said Carrera. After a visit to Alderwood, Carrera was preparing to move back to Portland, Ore., where she had lived for nine years before moving to Mexico, when one of her brothers encouraged her to make her home in Alderwood. It was partially because of her recent experience living in Mexico that Carrera was chosen as a recruiter and trainer for the Migrant Student Data and Recruitment office, which serves a variety of migrant ethnic groups in the state. As a recruiter and trainer, Carrera is on the road three weeks each month. She and the other recruiters in her office work with two different kinds of school districts, project districts, which receive federal grants for migrant students, and non-project districts, which do not receive any funds, she said. In project districts, Carrera said they work as trainers, teaching home visitors and record clerks how to identify and recruit migrant students in their school districts. In non-project districts, Carrera looks for migrant children who are not in school and encourages them to go back to school and earn their degree. She also talks to the district about applying for federal funds. \"I'm trying to work myself out of a job,\" Carrera laughed. In 2003-2002 there were 49,765 migrant youths identified. The youths are being served by both the MSDR and home visitors. The youth they serve are not just Hispanic. She said that numerous ethnic groups are served by her office, but Hispanic and Native American youths seem to get the most attention since they have the highest dropout rate. \"Our goal is to get them back in school and to persuade them to graduate,\" she said. With 12 years working for MSDR under her belt she has seen quite a few youths graduate from high school and move on to college who probably wouldn't have if she had not been there to encourage them to go to school. As a recruiter, Carrera has a protocol to follow before going into a school district. She said they first contact the superintendent and ask for permission to work in their school district. If they are approved, they contact English as a second language teachers in the community and any agencies that might cater to the migrant population and be able to help locate the families, she said. In the summer months Carrera's job takes a more proactive role. She said because of the impact of people moving to the agricultural areas to work in the apples, cherries, pears and other agricultural industries, Carrera actually goes to the labor camps and fields to find youth and their families. \"It's hard in the summer. I'll be in Omak or Tonasket and it will be 108 degrees in the shade,\" she said. Carrera said the educational services are among the most important the MSDR program offers. \"We try to find programs such as the high school equivalency program (HEP) and portable assistance study sequel (PASS) for they youth,\" said Carrera. She said MSDR also has free accident insurance available for migrant children living in the state. \"Letting them know what services are out there and what services are available so they can be successful, to me, that is what's important about my job,\" she added"}
{"Id":"1101163374885","Title":"Police seek two would-be robbers","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"4/23/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"The Alderwood Police Department is seeking two men who are believed to have gotten cold feet this morning and changed their plans to hold up Highway Fruit. According to Alderwood Police Department Sgt. Preston Kelley, two men, one wearing a black sweatshirt and one in a brown sweatshirt, were seen near the intersection of North Second Street and Warehouse Avenue walking toward the convenience store. \"One had a rifle and the other had his hand under his shirt and one of the witnesses thought it might have been a gun,\" said Kelley. The two men parked their green car at the end of Second Street and started walking toward the market, but people were standing out front. One of the small neighborhood dogs grabbed ahold of the pants leg of the man with the rifle, Kelley added. Kelley said he believes the two men were spooked and left before they had a chance to enter the store. The two men are described as in their late teens or early 20s. They were last seen driving a green car with a stripe of molding or a decal down the side. Police are seeking the car in hopes of finding the two men. Anyone with information is asked to call the Alderwood Police Department, 836-6211"}
{"Id":"1101163375119","Title":"CWU's Orchesis Dance Company to take the stage","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"4/23/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"ELLENSBURG - Central Washington University's Orchesis Dance Company will present its 37th spring concert next week-April 29, 30 and May 1-in McConnell Auditorium on the Ellensburg campus. Titled \"Extensions,\" this year's annual spring performance will include classical ballet, modern, jazz, tap and ethnic dance. Therese Young, CWU dance program coordinator, will direct the performance by the 40-member group, half of whom are dance minors at CWU. The featured works will include: ? \"Forests in Flight,\" choreographed by Alex Holden, a CWU senior from Auburn, which incorporates unusual movement with exotic masks; ? \"Snake Food,\" choreographed by Marie Galey, a CWU senior from Wenatchee, which \"resonates an earthy, tribal feeling,\" said Young; ? \"Trials and Tribulations,\" which pays tribute to Holocaust survivors who are each forced to deal with the reality of death. This piece was co-choreographed by Holden, April Ott of Mill Creek and Carla Pitts of Kirkland. The performances will begin at 8 p.m. each evening, with doors opening at 7:30 p.m. General admission is 7. Pre-sale tickets are now available in the CWU Student Union Building and at Ellensburg's Downtown Pharmacy. Tickets will also be sold at the door. The Orchesis spring concert is being co-produced by the CWU health, human performance and recreation, and theatre arts departments"}
{"Id":"1101163375354","Title":"Parents rally to save child care center","Author":"Melissa Browning","Time":"4/23/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Parents of youngsters attending the Alderwood School District's Early Childhood Learning Center met with Ruben Carrera, executive director of school and community resources, Thursday night to discuss way to cut the child care and pre-school's budget, making it more self-sufficient. According to site manager Lydia Martinez, plans to open an early learning center began in the fall of 2000. The goal was to provide child care, first of all, to teenage mothers attending classes at Alderwood High School. School district staff members would have second dibs on the remaining spaces available in the center, which is located at the corner of Ninth Street and Lincoln Avenue. Martinez said there are a few students who take advantage of the program, but mostly children of teachers are enrolled in the facility. \"What we do is a lot more than just child care,\" said Martinez. \"We've been able to provide that child care piece as well as pre-school.\" Washington Elementary School Vice Principal Diann Zavala has been researching pre-schools to see if the Alderwood School District is ready to provide pre-school instruction within the public schools. Currently, the school district offers developmental pre-school. The majority of the youths in the program are working on language development. \"The goal is to serve all those children who are not being served elsewhere,\" said Zavala. She said that of the 520 kindergartners entering school this year, about 120 of them did not attend pre-school. \"The plan is to have 120 spaces for those not currently being served,\" she said. The pre-school classrooms will be located in each of the elementary schools. If pre-schools in public schools are developed they will most likely begin in the 2005-06 school year. \"It is not our intention to close down (the early learning center),\" Carrera said to parents. \"We want to talk about the cost.\" Carrera said he will be making a presentation to the Alderwood School Board next Tuesday night on some of the cost saving ideas the parents brought up. \"When we started out we asked the board to start the program (financially) and it would pay for itself down the road and it hasn't,\" said Carrera. In its second year the early learning center borrowed 100,000. Carrera said that some of the money lost in the program has been due to state regulations. One of the regulations is that for infants the adult to child ration must be 1 to 4. Carrera said when a fifth child is enrolled an additional full-time staff person must be hired. To take care of the problem infants have been enrolled in groupings of four. Martinez said that children will be put on a waiting list until enough are enrolled to hire another teacher. The teachers at the early learning center are paid better and have benefits that are not available to teachers at other day cares, said Carrera. \"We expect more of them and we expect them to give our children better care,\" said Carrera. This year the early learning center is lacking 57,000 to balance the budget. Carrera said that as a group, parents and the staff of the center need to look at ways to cut the costs. Parental ideas included helping purchase materials for the class, parents providing janitorial services, a raise in tuition and seeking grants. Concerned that the center may be closed, Outlook Elementary School teacher and a parent of a student at the early learning center Stephanie Parsons has been looking at different options to help make up the funding needed to keep the center alive. One option she came across was the school district co-opting with the City of Alderwood or Alderwood Community Hospital, allowing employees of those two entities to use the services of the childhood center. One concern was that parents outside the school district wouldn't want to use the facility because it closes for the summer, but questions were raised as to the possibility of keeping the center open"}
{"Id":"1101163375588","Title":"Southern posts personal best at Pendleton invite","Author":"Bob Story","Time":"4/23/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"PENDLETON, ORE. - Heidi Southern, a senior at Alderwood High School, toured the back nine of the Pendleton Country Club yesterday with a personal best four-over 41. Coupled with the 50 she shot on the front side, Southern posted a team low round of 91. \"It was Heidi's best nine-hole score ever,\" said Alderwood Coach Gary Rohde. \"I believe the 91 was also her best 18-hole score.\" The Lady Grizzly golf team was one of 17 prep squads competing at Thursday's Pendleton Invitational. Alderwood didn't figure into the team scoring, though, as only three of the four girls on the Lady Grizzly team were able to make the trip to Pendleton. \"If we had had Jensie (Hernandez) there, I think we would have beaten half a dozen of the teams,\" said Rohde. As it turned out, Class 4A Richland won the invite team title, posting a tournament low aggregate score of 349. Class 3A Hanford claimed runner-up honors with a 364. Yesterday's medalist was Kristen Black of Hanford, who hit the clubhouse with a three-over 77. In carding her lowest nine-hole score ever, Southern knocked down five pars on the back side. Her steady back nine play included a string of three consecutive pars, on the par-5 11th and 12th holes and the par-3 13th. \"Heidi was very consistent on the back side,\" said Rohde. Second in for the Lady Grizzlies yesterday was sophomore Megan Downing. She posted a 121 on front and back scores of 64-57. Playing on her 16th birthday, Downing's present came on No. 8, when she parred the par-3, 150-yard hole. Rounding out the team scoring for Alderwood was freshman Christine Kim, who took a 155 (80-75). Earlier this week in a Mid-Valley League nine-hole competition against Prosser, the Alderwood girls prevailed by a 246-296 count. The victory boosted the Lady Grizzlies' conference record to 2-1. Southern, again, had the low round for Alderwood, claiming a 50 on the front nine at Black Rock Creek Golf Course. The Lady Grizzlies also got a 61 from Hernandez, a 64 from Downing and a 71 from Kim. Prosser's low scorer was Annie Lochrie with a 62. The Alderwood girls squad will play next at Ellensburg against the Bulldogs and the West Valley Rams, on Tuesday, April 27"}
{"Id":"1101163390072","Title":"Obituaries","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"4/23/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"CLIFFORD LEROY RETZER CLIFFORD LEROY RETZER Clifford L. Retzer, 69, of Lynnwood passed away Monday, Nov. 10, 2003, from his comforting, loving wife, Carol s arms into Jesus outstretched, welcoming arms at their home in Lynnwood. He had suffered a debilitating stroke two years earlier, on Nov. 11, 2001. He was able to return home for Carol to care for him and those two years were a precious bonus time sent directly from God. He was born Jan. 27, 1935, at Ashley, N.D. to Gustav and Rose (Buchholz) Retzer. The family moved to the Yakima Valley in 1938 and settled in Granger. Cliff received his education in Granger, graduating with the Class of 1954 and continued his education at Perry Institute after serving in the U.S. Army. He was a Korean War Veteran. Cliff and Carol Rose Price were married July 22, 1960 in Alderwood. They lived in Yakima the first year and relocated to Fairbanks, Alaska, where he was associated with Interior Airways and Gene s Auto, returning to Alderwood in 1966. He was employed by Carnation Company until its closure in 1986. He then became an employee of Darigold in Seattle. He retired as foreman for Darigold in Seattle and Issaquah in 1997. He and his Boxer dog, Lexi, took long walks daily and were well acquainted within a 10-mile radius of home. Lexi went everywhere with him in the pickup and sat right by his side in the hospital s ICU. The Retzers owned Boxers for more than 35 years, so each one was well known in the community. Clifford is survived by his wife, Carol, of Lynnwood; one son, Clifford L. Jr. Skip (Tina); one daughter, Stefanie (Leonard) Cox; four delightful granddaughters, Amanda, Nicole, Kelli Retzer and Gabrielle Caprice Cox; sister and brother-in-law, Ralph and Bernice Fennewald of Yakima; two brothers, Marvin (Reta) of Zillah and Melvin (Cathy) of California; three sisters-in-law, Peggy Yearout (Paul Tex ) of Yakima, Frances Stephens of Spokane and Winifred Price of Seattle; and many nieces and nephews. Special long-time friends and Carol s cousins kept in constant encouraging contact with him, bolstering Cliff and Carol s spirits. He is also survived by special friends Walter and Ruth vanWyk, Jerry and Marilyn O Connor and Leon and Gail Hedrick; and cousins, Jack and Don Linderman, Ron and Gloria Judd and Harriet Berg. He was preceded in death by his parents; mother-in-law, Lily Dixon; sisters and brother-in-laws, Ed and Ella June, Mel and Irene Fairbanks, and George and Don Dixon; two nephews, E.B. Bud June and James Tunison; a grand-nephew, Keith June; and the beloved Lexi. Cliff is remembered for his ever-present bright smile, genuinely congenial personality and the sight of him driving his faithful 48 Chev pickup with a Boxer dog accompanying him in the front seat. Cliff loved his Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ, family, friends, attending Church, visiting and enjoying good food. So we will do just that with those that care to join us attending the regular Sunday services April 25, 2004, at 10:30 a.m. at the Alderwood Presbyterian Church, 16th and Grant. Graveside services will be Sunday, April 25, 2004, at 1 p.m. at Outlook Cemetery with Rev. Katy Haney of the Alderwood Presbyterian Church officiating. We ll have some good food and enjoy each other s company at Snipes Mountain Restaurant, at 2 p.m., after the graveside service"}
{"Id":"1101163390354","Title":"Grandview City Council Briefs","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"4/21/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"1-Column Grandview moves ahead withnew signals GRANDVIEW - Grandview Public Works Director Cus Arteaga reported to city council Monday night, that work is currently being done on the design phase of the signalization projects at both the intersection of Wine Country Road and Elm Street and Wine Country and Grandridge roads. The project will include some changes to the intersection of Grandridge and Wine Country roads. The corner of the intersection where Lucky Seven is located will be widened to create a larger turning radius. According to the report given to council, the signals at both intersections will likely be installed later this fall. Daycare makes donation to playground project GRANDVIEW - Monday night, Grandview city council chambers were filled with children waiting their turn to give something back to the community. The children all attend Teddy Bear Corner daycare center and were at the meeting to donate 3,600 to Grandview's Dykstra Park playground project. Liz Charvet with Teddy Bear Corner said the children and their families sold 712 pizza kits to raise funds for the project. She said this is the most money the children have ever helped raise for a cause. \"There was not a person who thought it was a bad idea,\" Charvet said of the idea to raise funds for the playground project. Cavazos recognized for 25 years of service GRANDVIEW - Monday night, Tony Cavazos was recognized by Grandview City Council for 25 years of service to the community. Cavazos has worked with the Grandview Parks Department since 1979. \"I think really highly of this fellow,\" said Grandview Parks and Recreation Director Mike Carpenter. \"He always comes to work with a positive attitude.\" April Homesof the Month recognized GRANDVIEW - Five homes and one business were recognized by Grandview City Council Monday night as the recipients of the April Homes of the Month award, as well as the Beautification Award. April Homes of the Month include the homes of Mike and Myrleen Storms at 1808 Beacon St., Issac and Irma Perez at 1202 1/2 Rainier Dr., Manuel and Estela Ledesma at 622 E. Second St., Vernon and Delores Telander at 306 Avenue G, and Jesus and Ofelia Roman at 503 Armas Crt. The Beautification Award was presented to Westside Family Dental at 210 Euclid St"}
{"Id":"1101163390588","Title":"Open Mike","Author":"John Panni","Time":"4/21/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"This column follows last night's \"EPIC ENCOUNTER\" on the glorious grounds of Valley Lanes. The epic encounter I am referring to is last night's meeting between the Alderwood Daily News bowling team and the Lucky Strikes-Darrell Stenberg, Debbie Stenberg, Todd Newhouse and Dusty Van Hollebeke. The Lucky Strikes won last night's meeting and earned the right to be in a bowl off between other teams who won the different thirds in our Sunday's Mixers League in hopes of winning the big money. My partners on the Alderwood Daily News team are Rod Wells and Vickie Vanderhoef. Rod is also vice president of the league, which basically means he can get a cup of coffee real cheap with his administrative title. We like to refer to our story as the \"Miracle at Valley Lanes.\" Bowling is something I have only been doing for the last couple of years when my boss, Bob Story, brought Rod and I in a set of bowling bowls-matching I might add. A bunch of us down at the newspaper formed a team a couple of years ago. We didn't win the league championship, but we had fun. Rod was even named the bowler of the year. Last year, I wasn't able to bowl with our team because league play was on Monday nights and I had my weekly meeting with the Alderwood City Council. This year, the league moved to Sunday nights and the rest of our prized team quickly abandoned ship on us. But, Rod, Vickie and I have held our own. We have even had a little help from Ellie Olmsen, who saved our bacon one week late in this season and helped set up last night's epic encounter. I have no great bowling style. In fact, at the start of the season the gutter was a place my ball called home. I just throw the bowl straight down the lane now and see how many pins I can pick up. For the first two parts of this season we were every other team's homecoming game. For those of you who may not know, a football team usually schedules a weaker opponent for its homecoming game to help ensure victory. But by the latter part of the season, which stretches from fall until this Sunday when we finish up the league, we started picking it up. It doesn't hurt either that we have a combined handicap of something like 345 pins. Usually, we are 100 or more pins up on everyone before play actually begins. Recently, we have bowled like gods. I mean gods. We tore up the lanes. We went through a period where we climbed in to first place in the league. During the four-week stretch we swept our opponents I bowled my second 200 game. Sure, I only made it by one pin, but hey. After a week off because of the Easter holiday, we were a bit rusty. We also were trying to figure out how much money we owed to the league since our teammates who committed abandoned us and left Rod, Vickie and I to fend for ourselves. We were a bit distracted this past Sunday as we went up against Dave Hill, Maria Hill, Heather Rodriguez and Bruce Epps. None of them really helped our cause as we made a run to secure our title. If we had been the Titanic at that point, Dave and Bruce would have been the icebergs that sank us. But we still held our own, the opposition only won the first two games by a combined 32 pins before we stormed back to a dominating third game victory to garner the split. Meanwhile the Lucky Strikes swept Dan Bieber and his team. Just so everyone knows, if Andi Bieber had bowled that final game, her team would have won and there wouldn't have been the need for last night's epic encounter. We took a three-person team into last night's EPIC ENCOUNTER and nearly got it done. But, Van Hollebeke's 256 in the last game sank our chances of moving on for greater glory. Not even my best series ever, tossing games of 213-132-156, was enough to get us on the path to championship glory. The last game proved to be much like the seventh game of an NBA championship contest. The Alderwood Daily News won the first game by 73 pins. The Lucky Strikes come back and win the second game by 74 pins and then Hollebeke's 256 sank us in the last game. Of course, Todd Newhouse's series didn't help us either. Nor Darrell's or his wife's. But now the Alderwood Daily News knows what the Seattle Mariners feel like. The crushing agony of having a championship within your sights to only let it slip through your fingers like wet noodles. But, as someone just told me, there is always next year. . John Panni can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or email him at mPanni@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101163390822","Title":"Obituaries","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"4/21/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"JOSE M JOSE M. Martinez Jose M. Martinez, 95, of Alderwood died Tuesday, April 20, 2004, at Just Like Home in Alderwood. He was born Sept. 8, 1908 to Matias and Maria Anita (Guajardo) Martinez in Mexico. He received his early education in Mexico. Mr. Martinez moved to Alderwood in 1950, where he worked as a farmer and operated the Oro y Plata Rodeo in Alderwood. He is survived by two daughters, Mary Alvarez and husband, Jesus, of Mexico and Eva Sanchez and husband, Pedro, of Yakima; one son, Guadalupe Martinez and wife, Maria, of Renton; numerous grandchildren, great-grandchildren; and one great-great-grandson. He was preceded in death by his parents; his wife, Soledad Martinez; two sons, Vincente and Matias Martinez; three daughters, Adelina Guerrero, Anita Ibbara and Hortencia Flores Rebollosa; one brother, Matias Martinez; and one sister, Leticia Perez. Viewing and visitation will be held Thursday, April 22, 2004, from 3 to 8 p.m. with a Rosary to be held at 6 p.m. at Wells Funeral Home, Alderwood. Mass of Christian Burial will be held Friday, April 23, 2004, at 10 a.m. at St. Joseph Catholic Church, Alderwood, with burial to follow at Lower Valley Memorial Gardens, Alderwood, under the direction of Wells Funeral Home. JAMES C. SHADWICK James C. Shadwick, 88, a long-time Prosser resident, died Saturday, April 17, 2004, after a short bout with cancer. He was born June 23, 1915 in Goodman, Mo. to Charles Samuel and Sara Jane Saley-Shadwick. As a young man he moved from Missouri to Kansas to live with his sister and seek work. In 1935 he met and married Minnie M. Gordon. Together they had five daughters. He moved his family to Washington in 1943 and then to Prosser in 1945, he purchased a farm, where they had continued to live. He spent his early years in Washington working at Morning Milk and Carnation Milk, both in Alderwood, and then with Yakima Wine Growers in Grandview until his retirement. He is survived by his wife, Minnie Shadwick, of Prosser; five daughters, Sylvia and Wayne Bryson, of Sea Tac, Barbara Breeze, Bev and Ken Kite, Karen and Doug Hilmoe, all of Prosser, and Elaine and Manuel Messick of Hoquiam; nine grandchildren; 15 great-grandchildren; two great-great-grandchildren; numerous nieces and nephews; and cousins and in-laws. Viewing and visitation will be held Friday, April 23, 2004, from 3 to 8 p.m. and Saturday, April 24, 2004, from 10 a.m. until noon at Wells Funeral Home, Grandview. Funeral services will be held Saturday, April 24, 2004, at 1 p.m. at Wells Funeral Home, Grandview, with burial to follow at East Prosser Cemetery, under the direction of Wells Funeral Home. CLIFFORD LEROY RETZER Clifford L. Retzer, 69, of Lynnwood passed away Monday, Nov. 10, 2003, from his comforting, loving wife, Carol s arms into Jesus outstretched, welcoming arms at their home in Lynnwood. He had suffered a debilitating stroke two years earlier, on Nov. 11, 2001. He was able to return home for Carol to care for him and those two years were a precious bonus time sent directly from God. He was born Jan. 27, 1935, at Ashley, N.D. to Gustav and Rose (Buchholz) Retzer. The family moved to the Yakima Valley in 1938 and settled in Granger. Cliff received his education in Granger, graduating with the Class of 1954 and continued his education at Perry Institute after serving in the U.S. Army. He was a Korean War Veteran. Cliff and Carol Rose Price were married July 22, 1960 in Alderwood. They lived in Yakima the first year and relocated to Fairbanks, Alaska, where he was associated with Interior Airways and Gene s Auto, returning to Alderwood in 1966. He was employed by Carnation Company until its closure in 1986. He then became an employee of Darigold in Seattle. He retired as foreman for Darigold in Seattle and Issaquah in 1997. He and his Boxer dog, Lexi, took long walks daily and were well acquainted within a 10-mile radius of home. Lexi went everywhere with him in the pickup and sat right by his side in the hospital s ICU. The Retzers owned Boxers for more than 35 years, so each one was well known in the community. Clifford is survived by his wife, Carol, of Lynnwood; one son, Clifford L. Jr. Skip (Tina); one daughter, Stefanie (Leonard) Cox; four delightful granddaughters, Amanda, Nicole, Kelli Retzer and Gabrielle Caprice Cox; sister and brother-in-law, Ralph and Bernice Fennewald of Yakima; two brothers, Marvin (Reta) of Zillah and Melvin (Cathy) of California; three sisters-in-law, Peggy Yearout (Paul Tex ) of Yakima, Frances Stephens of Spokane and Winifred Price of Seattle; and many nieces and nephews. Special long-time friends and Carol s cousins kept in constant encouraging contact with him, bolstering Cliff and Carol s spirits. He is also survived by special friends Walter and Ruth vanWyk, Jerry and Marilyn O Connor and Leon and Gail Hedrick; and cousins, Jack and Don Linderman, Ron and Gloria Judd and Harriet Berg. He was preceded in death by his parents; mother-in-law, Lily Dixon; sisters and brother-in-laws, Ed and Ella June, Mel and Irene Fairbanks, and George and Don Dixon; two nephews, E.B. Bud June and James Tunison; a grand-nephew, Keith June; and the beloved Lexi. Cliff is remembered for his ever-present bright smile, genuinely congenial personality and the sight of him driving his faithful 48 Chev pickup with a Boxer dog accompanying him in the front seat. Cliff loved his Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ, family, friends, attending Church, visiting and enjoying good food. So we will do just that with those that care to join us attending the regular Sunday services April 25, 2004, at 10:30 a.m. at the Alderwood Presbyterian Church, 16th and Grant. Graveside services will be Sunday, April 25, 2004, at 1 p.m. at Outlook Cemetery with Rev. Katy Haney of the Alderwood Presbyterian Church officiating. We ll have some good food and enjoy each other s company at Snipes Mountain Restaurant, at 2 p.m., after the graveside service. RENA WERKHOVEN Rena Werkhoven, 92, of Alderwood and a former Mount Vernon resident passed away Monday, April 19, 2004. Our beloved mother, grandmother, and great-grandmother entered the eternal presence of her heavenly Father, and her Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, whom she loved and was faithful to her entire life. Rena was born May 19, 1911 in Boyden, Iowa, to Fred and Nellie Zylstra. On May 26, 1937 she married Andrew Werkhoven. Rena and her husband, Andrew, were dairy farmers in the Fall City and Duvall areas for many years until they moved to Mount Vernon in 1959. Rena was also employed by City Bakery and The Palace Caf in Mount Vernon for over 15 years. She recently moved to Alderwood to live with her son and daughter. Rena was a faithful member of the First Christian Reformed Church in Mount Vernon for 45 years, actively involved in the Golden Hour circle, various Bible studies as well as actively supporting Cascade Christian Home for the handicapped. Rena is survived by her daughter, Jeanette Werkhoven; three sons, Leroy and wife, Libby, Ed and wife, Mary, all of Alderwood, and Don and wife, Joan, of Carmichael, Calif.; five grandchildren; seven great-grandchildren; two sisters; and five brothers. She was preceded in death by her husband, Andrew, in 1985; three brothers; one sister; and one grandson. Services will be held Saturday, April 24, 2004, at noon at Hawthorn Funeral Home Chapel, Mount Vernon. Memorials can be given to Mount Vernon First Christian Reformed Church Memorial Fund. Hawthorn Funeral Home, Mount Vernon, is in charge of arrangements"}
{"Id":"1101163391104","Title":"Grandview youths place first at science fair","Author":"Melissa Browning","Time":"4/20/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"BREMERTON - Three students from Grandview's Harriet Thompson Elementary School traveled to Bremerton two weeks ago to compete at the Washington State Science Fair. Maryjane Martinez, Tabitha Veiga and Harley Hurst, who represented their 21st Century after-school classmates at the science fair, brought home first place and \"Best of Show\" honors. Teachers Tiffany Wise and Lucy Prieto have been working with a group of 25 students every day after school for the past eight weeks on a science presentation on crystals. Their project was titled \"Which substance will grow the biggest crystal and in what environment.\" Martinez, a second grader at Harriet Thompson, said in the class she has learned that crystals can be different colors and sizes. \"Some crystals weigh more than others,\" piped in Hurst, who is also in the second grade. To make crystals, the students used epsom salts, salt and sugar and mixed the solutions in a pan on a stove. They made crystals and kept them in a variety of locations, including the refrigerator, to see how they would grow in different environments. \"My favorite part of the project was making the crystals,\" said Martinez. \"I liked going to the Pacific Science Center,\" added Hurst. Both students also liked their trip to Bremerton to make the presentation to judges. According to Wise, Hurst, Martinez and Veiga auditioned for the opportunity to present the project at the state science fair, representing the other students in the class. \"The whole class worked on the project,\" she added. As a part of the project the students had to write their own hypothesis, methods used when conducting the experiment, a conclusion and application. They also researched crystals before starting on the project to gain background knowledge on the subject"}
{"Id":"1101163391338","Title":"Grandview garbage rates on the rise","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"4/20/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"GRANDVIEW - Grandview residents will soon find themselves paying more to have their garbage hauled away. Monday night, Grandview City Council members voted to increase the current garbage rate by 10 percent. This means the residential rate will increase from 8.40 to 9.24 a month. According to Grandview City Administrator Jim Sewell, the increase will still leave Grandview's garbage rate as one of the lowest in the Valley, with the exception of Alderwood. The 10 percent garbage rate hike will go toward funding a community clean-up program. Grandview Public Works Director Cus Arteaga explained that he set up a budget of approximately 25,000 for the program. The rate increase will bring in approximately 28,800 this year. Arteaga told council that the new program will include four steps that will help clean up the community of Grandview. The first step will be to advertise the one-week program, which is currently scheduled to take place during the week of May 24. Arteaga said he budgeted 1,000 to help pay for posters and advertising. During the clean-up week people will be allowed to put any debris out near their garbage can for free pick-up by a city crew. Arteaga said there will be an additional charge to pick up items such as tires, refrigerators and air conditioners, but that cost will simply cover the transfer station fee and will likely be added to the homeowner's water bill. Arteaga said the second step in the implementation process includes the creation of a clean-up committee, which will be made up of representatives from the public works, police, parks and recreation and code enforcement departments, as well as a member of city council. He explained that the committee will be in charge of doing a community-wide survey of local properties looking for potential violators. Arteaga said a list of any properties the committee feels needs to be cleaned up will then be presented to the city's code enforcement officer, who will send the property owner a letter with information about the coming community clean-up week. Another way the program will aim to clean up the community is through the use of volunteers. Arteaga said the third step in the program is to establish a volunteer work day on Friday, May 21. The volunteers will work to clean up the downtown corridor, from Wine Country Road south to Fourth Street and from Grandridge Road east to Birch Street. The final step of the program will include maintenance. Arteaga said he would like to assign an employee to monitor residential neighborhoods to ensure that clean-up efforts continue in front yards and alleys"}
{"Id":"1101163391572","Title":"Hockey legend speaks with Mabton students","Author":"Jamie Smart","Time":"4/20/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"MABTON - When an act of brutality on the National Hockey League ice ended the rising career of Henry Boucha in the late 1970s, he thought his life was over. The deliberate action by an opposing hockey player, which cost him vision damage to one eye, very nearly did destroy the popular young hockey player's life. Descending into a world of alcohol, drugs and failed marriages, Boucha had to fight his way back from despair. Now in his late 50s, the Minnesota man, who was a member of the U.S. Olympic Hockey Team which claimed the Silver Medal in the 1972 Olympics, spends his time promoting diversity and tolerance both in the hockey rink and in everyday life. He related his rise to being one of the most outstanding young hockey players in the history of the game, from a state high school champion player in 1964 to a professional hockey \"Rookie of the Year\" in 1973, as a member of the Detroit Red Wings. Monday, he toured schools in White Swan, Grandview and Mabton talking with youths about the importance of education and finding the right path to walk. \"Traveling around the world to play hockey, made me realize what a great country we live in,\" he told the Mabton Jr./Sr. High School students yesterday. \"While I was traveling with the U.S. National Hockey Team in 1970, I saw a world divided by the Communist Iron Curtain, behind which millions of people were denied personal freedoms,\" he told the students. Boucha, who grew up in Warroad, Minn., a small town about the size of Mabton, said, \"We may have been poor, but we had choices.\" He told of growing up before computer games and in some cases, even the availability of televisions in the home. \"We played road hockey for fun, honing skills, I'd later use in the ice rink,\" he recalled. Now active as the chairman of the Native American Committee of the U.S. Hockey Diversity Council, Boucha travels around the country encouraging, promoting and seeking finances for increasing the involvement of disadvantaged youth in the game of hockey. He said, \"I had the choice to succeed if I wanted to. \"The people living behind the Iron Curtain didn't have that right,\" he said. \"You have that right to walk the right path, to work hard to succeed in whatever you want to do,\" he told the students. \"The choice is yours,\" said the man who once earned a National Hockey League record for scoring the fastest goal at the start of a game. Boucha set the record in Jan. 23, 1973, at the start of a game against the Montreal Canadiens. His shot broke a 41-year-old record set by the late Charlie Cohnacour. Boucha was the leading scorer on the 1972 U.S. Olympic team in the games held in Sapporo, Japan, and is now a member of the U.S. Hockey Hall of Fame. Boucha brought along his Olympic team hockey jersey, and several of his medals, including the coveted Silver Olympic Medal which he allowed the students to handle while he spoke. Handling the medal still causes him some conflict. Not knowing how his professional hockey career might have ended had he not been injured at the age of 24, still raises questions for the man who was honored in 1992 as one of 10 Native American Olympians ever to appear in the history of the Olympics. \"Who knows what might have happened to me or how many more records I might have broken,\" he said. Hockey, often considered one of the most dangerous of all sports, still is a game Boucha defends as a great sport. Today, Boucha works with youth in his community to teach sportsmanship and to help facilitate changes in the game. His rise to the top of the hockey world is the subject of a new book, Henry Boucha - Star of the North, a book which documents his childhood and career. Boucha said he and its author, Mary Halverson Schofield of Minnetonka, Minn., are hoping to make a deal to have Boucha's story made into a film. \"It wasn't easy coming back after falling off my path,\" he told the students. \"But with the help of my friends and family, I was able to regain my focus and make a new career for myself and get back onto my path,\" he said. \"Remember that if you slip from your path, you can get back on it,\" he said"}
{"Id":"1101163391807","Title":"Energetic teen youth award winner","Author":"Jamie Smart","Time":"4/19/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"Her calm exterior and slender build belies the bundle of energy which makes up Stacey Gorski. The Alderwood High School senior, who last month was honored as the Alderwood Chamber of Commerce Outstanding Youth, has had no time to let that honor settle on her shoulders. Between her huge academic load at AHS, the honor student is busy completing her senior project, while filling out reams of college scholarship applications. As one of the top five students in her class, the 4.0 G.P.A. student is also preparing to present her regional and state award-winning science project at the annual International Science and Engineering Fair to be held in Portland, Ore. in May. Since mid-March, the petite teen has kept busy carting her science project from Kennewick to Bremerton, \"wowing\" science fair judges with her insightful inquiries into the side effects of new drugs being used for cancer victims in chemotherapy treatments. The youthful researcher, who has been collecting science fair awards since her middle school years, has had one of her best science years to date. She collected both the Grand Championship at the Mid-Columbia Regional Science Fair held in Kennewick in late-March and the bronze medal at the Washington State Science and Engineering Fair held April 2 in Bremerton. When not attending to her research or classes, she is in the midst of preparing scholarship applications in order to fund her future career as a pharmacist. \"I've been accepted to attend the University of Sciences in Philadelphia to study pharmacology,\" she explained. \"I plan to focus on oncology pharmaceuticals,\" she explained. Gorski said it was a summer job working at the North Star Lodge for cancer patients in Yakima that helped her to decide her post-high school education plans. \"The experience helped me to focus on the side effects of drugs on chemotherapy patients. \"Some of the new drugs used to treat the side effects of the chemo present their own set of side effects,\" she explained. \"I want to be more involved with that type of research,\" she said. Gorski said she has always been interested in the science of medicine beginning with her first science project. \"It seems pretty simple now, but I was looking at how blockages in the arteries affect blood flow as a sixth grader,\" she smiled. \"I've always studied compounds as they relate to disease on plants and animals. But this year is the first time I really focused on humans,\" she added. Gorski said her research at Yakima's North Star Lodge gave her an opportunity to see first-hand the effects of cancer fighting drugs on patients. \"I was able to see the impact science research has on people,\" she said. Her work experience has cemented her desire to help people, she said. In addition to her dedication to research, Gorski has also found time for fun. She is a member of the Alderwood Rotary Swim team and played high school soccer. For the past three years, she has also competed on the Grizzly Apple Bowl and Knowledge Bowl teams. Her area of expertise - science, of course"}
{"Id":"1101163392150","Title":"Nicole Linde crowned Yakima Valley Dairy Princess","Author":"Jamie Smart","Time":"4/19/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"YAKIMA - Nicole Linde, 18, of Outlook has been selected as the Yakima Valley Dairy industry's youth ambassador for 2004. The daughter of LaDon and Sandra Linde of Outlook, she was awarded the Yakima Valley Dairy Princess crown during ceremonies held this past Saturday night at the Yakima Convention Center. Sponsored by the Yakima Dairy Women, Linde was one of two candidates vying for the crown this year. Named as alternate was Carly DeGroot, 17, a junior at Alderwood Christian High School. Linde replaces reigning Yakima Valley Dairy Princess Kendra Golob of Granger, who will now advance to seek the state dairy princess title. Linde, a senior at Alderwood High School, is a member of a fourth generation dairy family. The Linde family owns and operates an 800-Holstein dairy near Granger. The second oldest of six children, Linde is active in Leaders in Action and Key Club, as well as being a former legislative page in the state House of Representatives and the Senate. She is a recipient of the Hugh O'Brian Youth Leadership award. In addition, she attends classes through Running Start at Yakima Valley Community College, where she expects to receive her Associate of Arts degree at the same time as her high school diploma in June. During the coming year, she will represent the dairy industry at ribbon cuttings, parades and at other dairy industry-sponsored events. Named as the Yakima Valley Dairy Princess Alternate, DeGroot is the daughter of Dan and Carolyn DeGroot. She is a member of National Honor Society and has received honorable mentions in the National Guild Piano auditions. She is the vice president of her school's FFA chapter and is a class officer. In addition to the dairy princess announcement, the Yakima Valley Dairy Women presented two 1,000 scholarships to students pursuing careers in agriculture. Scholarship recipients are Brandon Boogerd and Vanessa DeJong. Jeff Brooks of the Udder Guys Dairy Service of Alderwood was named the Dairy Women's \"2004 Friend of the Dairy Industry\" during the banquet"}
{"Id":"1101163393385","Title":"Ten hopefuls vie for Miss Cinco De Mayo crown","Author":"Jamie Smart","Time":"4/16/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Ten Lower Valley teenage girls will vie for the right to wear the Alderwood Miss Cinco de Mayo crown at the 2004 Miss Cinco de Mayo Pageant Friday, April 23, at the Alderwood High School auditorium. \"Corazon Latina\" (Latin Heart) is the theme of this year's pageant, which has attracted young Hispanic girls from Alderwood, Mabton, Grandview, Outlook and Prosser, according to Carlos Maya, pageant committee chairman. He said tickets to the pageant, which will showcase the candidates' poise, confidence and physical fitness, are 7 per person. Tickets are available at the Alderwood Chamber of Commerce office, or at the door the night of the pageant. He said the candidates have spent the past month learning what will be expected of them as members of the Miss Cinco de Mayo Court. Earlier this month, the young women sponsored a beef industry rally in downtown Alderwood as a fund-raiser, Maya said, as an opportunity to get the candidates ready for the public spotlight. The court, which will include a queen and a princess, will participate in its first official community event at the annual Alderwood Cinco de Mayo celebration to be held in downtown Alderwood May 7, 8, 9, Maya said. Among the 10 young candidates vying for the Miss Cinco de Mayo crown is Rachel Alvarez, 17, of Alderwood. The daughter of Rosalia Alvarez of Alderwood, she is a one of four children. A student at Alderwood High School, Alvarez is active as a member of the high school Grizzliettes dance/drill team. In addition, she regularly volunteers to read to younger children at Washington Elementary School. Alvarez hopes to one day attend college. Elizabeth L. Cervantes, the daughter of Juan and Maria Cervantes of Granger, is a senior at Granger High School. The 17-year-old girl describes herself as an outgoing and friendly person, who is a member of the school cheerleader squad during football and basketball seasons. She enjoys music and dancing, and hopes to major in fashion design or business following high school graduation. Anabel Diaz, 15, of Mabton is the daughter of Roberto and Maricela Diaz of Mabton. A sophomore at Mabton Jr./Sr. High School, she enjoys singing and is learning to play piano. She is active in her church and youth group. Diaz said even though she finds school work hard, she hopes to attend college and major in computer science. Janet Gonzalez is the daughter of Carmelo and Maria Gomez of Grandview. She is a junior at Grandview High School, where she is active in drill and dance team. In fact, Gonzalez loves dancing so much. she hopes to make it a career. One of four children, she hopes to one day go to dance or modeling school. Candidate Yesenia Jalifi, 16, dreams of a career in education, but first she'd like to be the next Miss Cinco de Mayo. The Alderwood High School student is the daughter of Alfredo and Linda Jalifi of Alderwood. A volunteer at Washington Elementary School, she spends her spare time baby-sitting and spending time with her four older brothers and sisters and friends. Candidate Maria Elena Macias, 18, of Outlook is a senior at Alderwood High School. A student in the high school's nursing assistant program, Macias hopes to attend Yakima Valley Community College to study nursing. One of five children, she is the daughter of Isidro and Margarita Macias. Candidate Rosie Moran hopes to attend college in order to major in early childhood education upon graduation from Alderwood High School. The 17-year-old is active in Grizzliettes, Clubs TATU and SADD, as well as being the senior class treasurer. Moran is also the dance team treasurer. In addition to her school work, she holds a part-time job at the Alderwood Taco Bell. She is the daughter of Vicente Moran. Candidate Iris Ruiz, 17, is a student at Alderwood High School, where she is a member of National Honor Society and Club SADD and her school's chapter of Future Business Leaders of America. Ruiz, the daughter of Angel Ruiz and Leticia Chavez of Alderwood, is also a member of the Alderwood Police Explorers Post. Her association with the police scouting group has encouraged her to study criminal forensics at Eastern Washington University. Candidate Maribel Sanchez, 16, is a Alderwood High School student, who enjoys styling hair. One of six children, she is the daughter of Juan and Julia Sanchez of Alderwood. Sanchez said she hopes to go to college, but hasn't yet chosen a career course. Kathya Quijano, 17, of Prosser is the final candidate for the Miss Cinco de Mayo title. A student at Alderwood High School, she is a member of Link Crew, MeCha and Club SADD. Quijano is a member of Grizzliettes and plays high school softball. She is also a Sunday school teacher at her church. One of three children, she is the daughter of Anita Lopez of Prosser. Quijano hopes to attend Washington State University to study architecture. . Jamie Smart can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or you can e-mail her at jSmart@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101163408135","Title":"Grandview fair takes on new look","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"4/14/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"The Yakima Valley Fair and Rodeo is going to look a little different this summer, according to fair and rodeo representatives Sharon Fisher and Jim Herriman. Instead of being spread over 11 acres the fair will be more compactly laid out. The Yakima Valley event will include a carnival and there will be more events, activities and sights for people to take in during their visit to the fair and rodeo. Fisher and Herriman, who together served as the guest speakers for the Alderwood Daybreak Rotary Club on Wednesday morning, said this year people can expect to see some changes at the fair and rodeo. Fisher said the fair is an event that started in downtown Grandview approximately 77 years ago, noting that 13 years ago the fair was moved from its downtown location to its current location along Wallace Way. She said when the fair was moved from its small downtown location to its new 11-acre home, people coming to the fair didn't see as much there because it was spread over a considerably larger area. \"This year we're trying to get it closer together,\" Fisher said. Herriman later added that bringing the event together will mean that people visiting the fair and rodeo will no longer have to walk what seems like half a mile to get to the carnival or other sights the fair has to offer. The fair isn't the only thing getting a light makeover this year. Fisher told Rotarians that this year the rodeo, which up until last year was a ProWest rodeo, will be a Professional Rodeo Cowboy Association (PRCA) rodeo event. \"It's a new venture for us,\" Fisher said. She added that she is hopeful that the new PRCA designation will mean that even more people will come out to both take part in and support the local event. \"We're really excited about this and we're hoping to get support for this,\" Fisher said, noting that the rodeo is made possible through the use of donations from the community. Fisher said the fair board is also trying to reach out to other neighboring communities for support. \"We're not a Grandview rodeo and a Grandview fair,\" she said. \"We're called the Yakima Valley Fair and Rodeo.\" Fisher added that looking at the students who regularly show animals during the fair it is easy to see the many different communities that are represented. She noted that there are typically more students who show animals from Alderwood and Prosser at the Yakima Valley Fair and Rodeo then there are from Grandview. Herriman said he is hoping to see more commercial booths at the fair this year, noting that he is also looking to other neighboring communities for people to come in and showcase their businesses at the fair. Herriman noted that in addition to trying to attract people from up and down the Yakima Valley to support the fair and rodeo, the fair board is also looking to bring more people in from these neighboring communities to take part in the event. He said this year the Wenatchee Youth Circus will be in town for two nights of the fair and rodeo, and the University of Washington is also scheduled to conduct a band and cheer day in Grandview Thursday, Aug. 12. Herriman explained that the band and cheer day will give area bands who did not have the opportunity to participate in a band camp to come to Grandview and attend a day long band camp presented by the University of Washington. He said following the camp the students who took part will march in the Grandview parade, as well as perform at the Yakima Valley Fair and Rodeo. \"There's a lot happening this year,\" Herriman said. \"It's going to be a really exciting event.\" The Yakima Valley Fair and Rodeo is scheduled to take place Aug. 11-15, with the rodeo taking place Friday, Aug. 13, and Saturday, Aug. 14"}
{"Id":"1101163408369","Title":"Lower Valley truancy commissioner works to keep kids in school","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"4/14/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"YAKIMA - State law makes it mandatory for every child between the ages of six and 18 to attend school and it's Truancy Commissioner Sid Ottem's job to ensure that all of the youth of the Lower Alderwood Valley are doing just that. Ottem, who has served as the Lower Valley truancy commissioner since January, said he travels to Alderwood every other Wednesday to oversee cases where students, for one reason or another, are not attending school on a regular basis. He said he works out of the Alderwood Municipal Court when he is in the Lower Valley, often times seeing as many as 20 to 25 cases during his time here. Ottem explained that because of state law, every school must keep attendance records noting when a student is in school and when a student is absent. He said if a student is found to have 10 unexcused absences over the course of a year or seven unexcused absences in a month, the school district brings a petition before the court, which both the student in question and their parents must respond to. This is where Ottem steps in. He explained that the process begins with a petition hearing, during which time a student has to explain the reason for their absence. It is during this time that the court also works to determine if the school's attendance records are correct. Ottem said once this hearing takes place the court will typically take jurisdiction over the student, meaning that they now held responsible for attending school by not only their parents and the school district, but also by the court. \"Now the court is going to be involved in this process,\" Ottem said. He said if a student continues to have unexcused absences the school district will once again submit a petition and this time a contempt hearing is held. Ottem said during the hearing the student comes into court with their parents to explain the reason for their continued absence. Ottem said at this point if the court finds the student's explanation of the absences to be unsatisfactory there are provisions that can take place, including everything from performing community service to putting them in a juvenile facility for up to seven days. \"Our main goal is to get the student in school,\" Ottem said. Ottem, who has been a court commissioner in Yakima County since 1999, said serving as a truancy commissioner is not his only responsibility. He said he also serves as a water rights adjudication commissioner, which is his main focus. Ottem said he first got involved as the Lower Valley truancy commissioner because of his interest in school and students. He noted that he served as a football coach for LaSalle High School for two years. Ottem said he enjoys serving as a truancy commissioner, especially when it comes to helping students figure out ways they can succeed and do better. He said although he's only held the position for several months, he is finding that most of the parents he sees every other Wednesday are interested in their student going to school. Ottem said working out of the Alderwood Municipal Court he deals with students from various Lower Valley school districts, from Toppenish and White Swan to Grandview. \"We're just trying to provide another opportunity to keep students interested in going to school,\" Ottem said of the position. He noted that sometimes the solution to an attendance problem can be as simple as ironing out communication between the school district, the parents and the student"}
{"Id":"1101163408635","Title":"Doc will let his record speak for itself in 2004 campaign","Author":"Bob Story","Time":"4/14/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"4th District Congressman Doc Hastings has no qualms on how he will be judged by voters come November. Hastings (R-Pasco) hasn't yet formally announced his candidacy for re-election, but did reveal yesterday that he has every intention of seeking a sixth term to the U.S. Congress. \"I'll be running on my record of service,\" said Hastings, who stopped off for a short visit in Alderwood yesterday enroute to making an appearance in Wapato, where he and fellow Republicans turned out to announce the formation of the Washington Farm and Ranch Leadership Team. In confirming that he will once again be a candidate to represent Central Washington voters, Hastings said the 2004 campaign has already swung into high gear. Money has already been raised, he said, and the Hastings' camp is organized in all 10 counties he represents. Why should Central Washington voters return Hastings to the nation's capital? Simply put-Hastings said his record of service shows he has the best interest of local residents in mind. He points with pride to his representation of the ag industry. Most recently, he was instrumental in securing federal funding for the Black Rock Reservoir feasibility study. \"And we'll be prepared to act when the feasibility study is done,\" he promised. Hastings also was one of the key players this year in convincing the USDA to purchase asparagus from local growers. American asparagus growers have fallen on tough times recently, because of the federal government's decision to open the U.S. marketplace to South American grown asparagus. He, too, helped bail out ailing apple growers several years ago when they couldn't find a market for their crops, by convincing his fellow legislators to offer financial assistance. Another feather was added to Hastings' cap when he worked successfully to get the allocation of federal funds for the market access program doubled to 200 million. That program is set up to help American farmers market their crops overseas. Agriculture isn't the only area of interest Hastings has. In terms of the clean-up at the Hanford Nuclear Reservation, he has worked to do away with the funding spikes of the past. \"I feel we've secured stable funding for the clean-up that is needed there, and in the process that has accelerated the clean-up,\" he said. Hastings isn't shy in bringing up the citizenship bill he recently sponsored, that was eventually adopted by lawmakers and signed into law by President George W. Bush. In essence, the legislation cuts the waiting period to become an American citizen from five years to one for those who have served in the U.S. military. \"Anybody willing to put their life on the line for this country deserves to have the process speeded up to become a U.S. citizen,\" he said. \"I'm very proud this bill was signed into law.\" Hastings' time in trying to get himself re-elected this fall may be limited, as he is currently serving as the Washington state vice chairman of the Bush re-election campaign. He said a concentrated effort is underway to \"...carry Washington this year.\" In the last Presidential election, Washington's electoral votes were cast for Democrat Al Gore. Hastings' stop-off in Alderwood Tuesday afternoon came on the heels of his recent trip to Iraq. He relayed one of the messages many of the troops returning from the Mideast bring with them, that it is unfortunate the media doesn't cover the positive aspects of what the American military is doing in Iraq. Things like rebuilding schools, returning the government to the people, themselves, and opening up the worldwide information highway to the Iraqi people are all positive things that get little attention, he said. Hastings said he saw for himself that the Iraqi people are craving information from the outside world, as now just about every home there sports a satellite dish. When police stations in Iraq get bombed by terrorists and entire police forces are wiped out, Hastings said more Iraqis step forward as replacements than positions that are open-another sign that the Iraqi people are in favor of what the U.S. is attempting to accomplish there. \"I came back with a different impression than we're getting over here,\" he said. \"We're in a war on terrorism.\" He cites the recent increase in terrorist attacks in Iraq to the approaching date of June 30, when Iraq's governing council is scheduled to take power. Bottom line-Hastings said he stands behind Bush's decision to involve military troops in freeing the Iraqi people from their oppressors. All in all, Hastings is proud of what he has accomplished during the five Congressional terms he has served Central Washington, and believes the stances he has taken is for the betterment of all. \"I certainly think it's a record I can run on,\" he said. . Bob Story,can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or e-mail him at bstory@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101163408869","Title":"Alderwood defeats Bulldogs","Author":"John Panni","Time":"4/14/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"ELLENSBURG - While the Yakima Valley lay covered in clouds and cold weather yesterday, the Alderwood High School baseball team made the trip to Ellensburg, where the sun shined bright on the Grizzlies. Alderwood defeated the Bulldogs 6-4 to move to 5-1 in Mid-Valley League play (8-3 overall). The Grizzlies will host Hanford in a twin bill this Saturday. About the only gray spot for the Grizzlies in yesterday's game was the two errors that led to three unearned runs by Ellensburg. \"I am happy with the way our kids played,\" said Alderwood Coach Dave Martinez. \"There were some things that happened in that game, but the kids kept their chins up.\" Ellensburg scored two runs in the first and lone tallies in the second and fourth innings. The Bulldogs had a pretty good day at the plate, recording nine hits. Ellensburg also had two errors in the game. Alderwood scored three runs in the first inning. Micah Zakahi had a sacrifice fly to score Pete Marquez and teammate Nathan Anderson ripped a two-run single. The Grizzlies picked up a lone run in the third inning and then two more runs in the top of the fourth. With one out in the fourth inning, Marquez moved to third off an error in the outfield. Teammate Tyler Esqueda made it to first base on the same play and later stole second. Two passed balls then scored Marquez and Esqueda. Zakahi gained his third win of the season (3-2) with his three innings of work yesterday. Zakahi gave up one earned run, five hits, two walks and had five strikeouts. R.J. Elizondo worked the middle of the game on the mound, going 2-1/3 innings. Elizondo allowed four hits and three walks. He had one strikeout. Derek Uberuaga, though, came up big in his first save of the season. Uberuaga pitched in relief in the sixth inning with one out and the bases loaded. Uberuaga got the first batter he faced to pop up and then the next one to strike out to end the inning. Uberuaga had three strikeouts and one walk. \"That was a good test for him,\" said Martinez. \"Derek got it done.\" Alderwood had a decent day at the plate with six hits. Marquez, Esqueda, Anderson, Elizondo and Chris Newberry each had a hit in the game. Grizzly catcher Michael Johnson had three walks in the game and scored two runs. Newberry was also walked twice. Johnson has a team-high 13 walks while Newberry is second with 12. Martinez said he is excited about this weekend's doubleheader against Hanford. He said the Falcons have been scoring a lot of runs lately, but Hanford has also been giving up a lot of runs. \"I hope we have a big crowd,\" said Martinez. \"We will go out there and see what happens"}
{"Id":"1101163409104","Title":"Briefs","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"4/13/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"1-Column LaSalle open house April 19 UNION GAP - Lower Alderwood Valley families interested in providing their children with an educational opportunity in the tradition of the Christian Brothers are invited to attend an open house at LaSalle High School. Those who attend the Monday, April 19, open house will have the opportunity to visit with LaSalle students, parents and faculty about the college preparatory classes offered there, Christian values, personalized education and the campus ministry. LaSalle High School is located just south of Ahtanum Road, off Goodman Road in Union Gap. The open house hours will be from 4:30 to 7 p.m. College information available at family event Information about college applications and financial aid will be made available to Alderwood families during a special family night to be held Tuesday, April 13, at Chief Kamiakin Elementary School from 6 to 8 p.m. Organized by the Alderwood GEAR-Up program, the two-hour program will include representatives from the University of Washington, Alderwood School District and the 21st Century Community Learning Center. In addition to information about post-high school education, a variety of math and science activities are being planned, said Luz Rodriguez, Yakima Valley GEAR-Up parent liaison. Additional activities include a Pacific Science Center technology exhibit at the Alderwood family night event, she said. For more information about the evening call Rodriguez at (509) 961-9894 or Lino Gutierrez, Alderwood GEAR-Up site director at 830-2149"}
{"Id":"1101163409338","Title":"Nineteen HMS students get all A's","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"4/13/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"A total of 19 Harrison Middle School students in Alderwood earned perfect 4.0 grade point averages for the third quarter of the 2003-04 academic year. The straight-A students include seventh graders Alberto Barcenas, Elvira Chiprez, Sarah Palacios, Jaime Ramos, Kelsey Rollinger, David Salmeron, Megan Tyler, Naomy Velasco, Desiree Winters and Oscar Zamorano; and eighth graders Brenda Barrios, Alyssa Boogerd, Jacob Brandvold, Joanna Chiprez, Cassie Herndon, Jordyne Jaquish, Claire Schilperoort, Beth Stiteler and Joceline Wynn. Eighth graders named to the regular honor roll for the third quarter of school include Sergio Abundiz, Antonio Angel, Alejandra Alanis, Alondra Alarcon, Crystal Alejandre, Jeanette Alvarez, Jessica Alvarez, Jose Alvarez, Brittney Amaro, Melinda Amaro, Sadelle Arevalo, Juan Ballesteros, Matthew Barr, Alejandra Benitez, Juan Benitez, Michael Bermudez, Alejandra Bobadilla, Norberto Bobadilla, Cameron Boboth, Lacy Bogart, Aristeo Borges, Justin Bos, Andrea Bott, Brittney Bower, Helen Burgard, Diego Burgueno, Sandra Cambron, Adrian Cantu, Deyma Cantu, Abel Cardenas, Arianeli Carrillo, Beatriz Carrillo, Petra Carrillo, Carlos Castellanos, Vanessa Castillo, Rogelio Chavez, Adriana Cisneros, Amber Coder, Ashlie Coder, Ryan Coder, Nathan Cornelius, Stephanie Cornwell, Monica Corona, Rachel Corona, Challea DeCann, Angela DeLaBarrera, Emmanuel Delgado, Derrick Denson, Dacia Drollinger, Sandra Duarte, Maegen Elizondo, Linda Escareno, Araceli Espindola, Javier Estrada, Angelina Fernandez, Andrew Flodin, Kassandra Flores, Sandra Flores, Mitchell Gabino, Bertha Martinez, Carlos Martinez Jr., Luis Martinez, Martin Martinez, Pedro Garibaldo, Stephanie Garza, Ana Gomez, Joshua Gonzales, Rocio Gonzalez, Stephanie Gonzalez, Amanda Graham, Isidro Granados, Kassaundra Guillen, Diedree Hall, Alexander Henry, Yesenia Herrera, Jordan James, Kaitlin Jeske, Matthew Jongsma, Clara Justo, Amber Kaiser, Jonas Lain, Araceli Lepez, Judith Licona, Alyssa Longoria, Nancy Lopez, Oscar Luna, Martha Macias, Angelita Madrigal, Patricia Madrigal, Zachary Mains, Julie Marin, Blanca Martinez, Maria Martinez, Angelica Mata, Paloma Mata, Micah McNerney, Kelsea Means, Sarah Melendrez, Genesis Mendez, Maritza Mendoza, Ivan Mercado, Brittany Messmore, Melissa Miller, Jose Moncada, Samantha Monterrey, Riley Moore, Noemi Ortiz, David Palomarez, Kyle Pearson, Araceli Peralta, Armando Perez, Daniel Pina, Beverleigh Quenan, Catalina Ramirez, Silvia Ramirez, Alexis Ramos, Maria Ramos, Victoria Ramos, Jeronimo Rangel, Megan Razey, Brice Rinehold, Mayra Rios, Brittany Ritchey, Julianna Robert, Dahna Rodriguez, Kayla Rollinger, Josaphina Roman, Isaac Romero, Erica Sabedra, Lucerito Salcedo, Celeste Salinas, Desiree Samaniego, Francisco Sanchez, Mathew Santoy, Mayra Serna, Emily Shuttleworth, Nicole Southern, Melissa Stamschror, Ashley Talbert, Mayra Tapia, Juanita Tellez, Jose Trevino, Sarah Valencia, Emily Van de Graaf, Jose Vargas, Jovan Vargas, Marisol Vazquez, Ali Velasco, Monica Velazquez, Gilberto Villalobos, Joseph Villanueva, Erick Vizguerra, Alyson Waddle, Michael Watts, Julie Wedam, Nigel Weenink, Ashley Wolfe, Kraig Wyatt, Shana Zamarron, Anika Zamora, Kellie Zamora and Jamie Zijlstra. Seventh graders earning regular honor roll accolades for the third quarter of the school year include Tristan Abbott, Ryan Alaniz, Maria Alvarado, Erica Anderson, Araceli Baldovinos, Rebeca Barrios, Daysi Bautista, Geneda Benitez, Nathen Bennett, Thomas Bieber, Crystal Bonilla, Jefferson Bonny, Samantha Bridger, Ashley Bridges, Jaime Briones, Beatriz Campos, Alejandra Carrasco, Susana Carrasco, Jesus Carrillo, Melodie Casas, Gabriela Castillo, Rubi Chavez, Crystal Chiprez, Samuel Comstock, Noemi Correa, Tarah Cruz, Gabriela Del Angel, Molly Dolan, Ashleigh Emery, Alexis Espindola, Fermin Fernandez, Virgina Frausto, Maria Gomez, Maribel Gomez, Jessica Gonzalez, Cindy Gudino, Elidio Guillen, Jessica Guizar, Carina Gutierrez, Levi Hagert, Antassia Hammond, Autumn Hathaway, Aarika Hernandez, Jeanette Hernandez, Jessica Isquierdo, Katie Johnson, Mayra Juarez, Sarah Kilian, Anthony Louie, Kassandra Luther, Monica Martinez, Nicholas Martinez, Soledad Martinez, Kathia Medina, Regina Mendez, Janelle Mendoza, Laura Mendoza, Ricardo Mendoza, Ignacio Mojica, Rosa Moreno, Udi Nassar, Gabriela Navarro, Haydee Navarro, Crystal Pacheco, Thailee Paxton, Samantha Pearson, Samantha Perales, Carla Perez, Joaquin Perez, Diana Picazo, Francisco Ramirez, Maria Ramirez, Damian Ramos, Maria Ramos, Rocio Ramos, Teresa Ramos, David Reihs, Alex Rivera, Eric Rodriguez, Jacob Rogers, Steven Romero, Jasper Rubalcava, Fernando Salcedo, Christopher Sambrano, Katya Sanchez, Alejandra Sandoval, Cristal Sandoval, Sonia Saucedo, Maria Serrano, Emily Slinker, Jerica Wells, Jesus Solis, Hali Soto, Henedina Tavares, Kelsee Thomas, Fernando Torres, Oscar Torres, Jamie Valencia, Teagan Van Gundy-Carlson, Andres Vargas, Jessica Verduzco, Hannah Seeger and Katelyn Wutzke"}
{"Id":"1101163409838","Title":"City leaders conservatively ete new housing rehab program","Author":"John Panni","Time":"4/12/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"Citing financial concerns, Alderwood City Council members last week decided to proceed slowly before entering a new, more extensive housing rehabilitation project to benefit local residents. The idea to enter a new housing rehabilitation program came from Gene Weinmann of the Yakima Valley Conference of Governments (COG). COG is currently overseeing the Alderwood Up! housing rehabilitation program for the city. Weinmann was providing Council with an update of recent activities involving the Alderwood Up! program. Weinmann told Council the last housing rehabilitation project falling under the Alderwood Up! program was recently put out for bid and construction should begin in the next few weeks. The Alderwood Up! housing rehabilitation project stemmed from a 500,000 Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) the city obtained in 2002. There has also been additional monies in the form of 250,000 for street and sidewalk improvements set aside. By the time the Alderwood Up! housing project concludes, towards the latter part of the year, some 22 homes in the community will have been upgraded. Another 15 will have had extensive weatherization improvements done. Weinmann informed the Council of some changes at the state level that could benefit the city with funding for upcoming projects. The CDBG program has changed its allocation process for grant applications. Until last year, cities could only apply for one CDBG grant per year. Now, said Weinmann, cities can apply for separate housing rehabilitation grants in addition to one other CDBG grant for funding any other needed projects. Weinmann said the city could benefit greatly from these application process changes. He said the city has an excellent track record with CDBG funding, which will benefit Alderwood with its application process. The city does have some time before having to submit the actual CDBG application, seeking funding for any new housing rehabilitation program, said Weinmann. Weinmann did caution the Council that if the city does decide to pursue a more extensive housing rehabilitation program with COG, he would need some sort of direction within the next few weeks. Weinmann said he was looking at tackling an all-inclusive, city-wide housing rehabilitation program and it would take time to gather the needed data to go along with the application. Weinmann said the city's application for CDBG funding would not be due until mid-November. Mayor Pro-tem George Greenway had concerns about entering a new housing rehabilitation program, considering the fiscal problems the city is having. For the Alderwood Up! housing rehabilitation program, the city committed 110,000. \"It is going to be a tighter year this budget year than last,\" added Councilman Tom Seeger. Seeger said if the city committed the type of money it did for the Alderwood Up! housing rehabilitation program, it would cost the city at least two employees. \"I am not opposed to the program,\" said Seeger. \"That match is just a killer.\" Councilwoman Jennie Angel said she would like to see the city move forward with a new housing rehabilitation program. She felt a project such as this would greatly enhance the city. Mayor Rex Luthor directed Interim City Manager Bruce Rinz to research the ins and outs of entering into a new housing rehabilitation program and bring a report back to Council. Weinmann said he would also gather more financial data for the Council to review"}
{"Id":"1101163410072","Title":"Two innings cost Alderwood girls","Author":"Bob Story","Time":"4/12/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"With the exception of two innings, the Alderwood High School girls fastpitch softball team gave Ellensburg all it could handle this past Saturday. But, the two letdowns-the fifth frame of the opening game and the sixth inning of the nightcap-both proved to be costly. Ellensburg utilized the two bad innings on the part of the Lady Grizzlies to pull out a pair of 7-4 and 9-5 Mid-Valley League victories. \"The first game,\" said Alderwood Coach Kris Gonzalez, \"we had a mini-meltdown in the fifth inning.\" Gonzalez explained that Ellensburg rallied from a 4-2 deficit in the top of the fifth, plating four unearned runs to take control of the game. The major miscue in the fifth was an outfield error that let in two runs. The Lady Grizzlies opened the first game by plating a single tally in the first inning. Alderwood increased its lead to 4-0 with a three-run uprising in the bottom of the second. Monique Montelongo started the second inning rally by drawing a walk, working her way around to third on a passed ball. She scampered home easily on a single by Lacey Yanez. Jessica Cruz was then issued a walk, and both she and Yanez moved up a base on a passed ball. Both Cruz and Yanez scored when Samantha Taylor's grounder to second was misplayed for an error, the only miscue Ellensburg committed in the opening game. The Bulldogs, after taking a 6-4 lead in the fifth, added an insurance run in the sixth. Alderwood didn't score again after the second inning. The first game loss spoiled a fine pitching performance by Viri Pasillas, who limited the Bulldogs to just five hits. Pasillas had three strikeouts in the game. \"Viri pitched a great game,\" said Gonzalez. \"She was hitting her spots.\" Alderwood actually outhit Ellensburg in the opener, 7 to 5. Two of the Lady Grizzlies came through with two hits apiece-Taylor, who was 2-for-4 with two singles, and Devina Martinez, who was 2-for-3 with a double in the bottom of the fifth. Ellensburg jumped all over the Lady Grizzlies in the twin bill finale, scoring three runs in its first at-bat. Alderwood wasted little time, though, in responding, answering with a four-run explosion of its own in the bottom half of the first. Cruz initiated the first inning rally by laying down a bunt single, one of two hits she had in the game. She proceeded to swipe both second and third, two of the three stolen bases Cruz was credited with in the nightcap. Martinez, who turned in another two-hit performance for the Lady Grizzlies, drove in Cruz with her first single of the game. An error of the bat of Celeste Loffer scored Martinez. Following a walk to Montelongo, Jenny Wells lashed a single to plate both Loffer and Montelongo. The Bulldogs came back with two runs in the top half of the third, but Alderwood squared the contest at 5-all by plating a lone score in the bottom half of the frame. Neither club could get much of anything going after that, that is until the top of the sixth, when the Lady Grizzlies committed three of the six errors they had in the game. The three sixth inning miscues led to four Ellensburg runs crossing the plate. \"We had those three errors, plus Ellensburg started hitting Erica (Martinez) that inning,\" said Gonzalez. \"We couldn't come back from that.\" Martinez was lifted midway through the sixth, making way for Pasillas, who finished the pitching chores for Alderwood. The two losses Saturday dropped Alderwood's conference record to 0-3, 0-7 overall. The Lady Grizzlies are scheduled to take on East Valley on the Red Devils' field for a single non-league game tomorrow (Tuesday), with game time set for 4 p.m"}
{"Id":"1101163424510","Title":"Grizzlies in second after sweep of Prosser","Author":"John Panni","Time":"4/12/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"Good pitching can keep just about any baseball team in a game to the very end. Bad pitching can make a team not even want to take the field. Case in point, this past Saturday's home doubleheader for the Alderwood High School baseball team against Mid-Valley League rival Prosser. The opening game pitted pitchers of opposing styles against one another. Alderwood's Derek Uberuaga got the best of Prosser's Ricky Adams in a 3-2 decision. Not even utilizing four pitchers in the second game could help the Mustangs, as Prosser's bullpen fell apart in a 14-1 loss. The Grizzlies (4-1, 7-3) are tied with West Valley for second place in the Mid-Valley League, heading into Tuesday's single game at Ellensburg. Alderwood and the Rams are a game behind 5-0 Selah. One not so stellar inning was the only blemish on an otherwise stellar outing from Grizzly pitcher Derek Uberuaga. Uberuaga went the distance for Alderwood in the opener, collecting 10 strikeouts while allowing only four hits. Uberuaga did give up two walks and had one hit batter. The Mustangs dinged Uberuaga for a pair of runs in the top of the fifth inning. In the frame, Prosser mixed in a pair of singles on top of the walk and hit batter Uberuaga had to score the pair of runs. \"Derek pitched a very nice game,\" said Alderwood Coach Dave Martinez. \"He had some velocity going into the seventh inning.\" On the opposing side, Alderwood batters had trouble reading the pitches of Adams, said Martinez. Alderwood still managed to tag Adams for eight hits. Uberuaga and Tyler Esqueda were both 2-for-3 at the plate in the opener for Alderwood. \"We weren't adjusting to the slower pitchers again,\" said Martinez. \"We have to be able to make that adjustment from pitcher to pitcher.\" Alderwood scored a pair of runs in the third inning. Chris Newberry singled to plate Jacob Hazzard and then Michael Johnson had a base hit to bring in Newberry. The Grizzlies' other run came in the fourth inning when Esqueda doubled to score Michael Sanchez, who was pinch running for Uberuaga. The nightcap was a debacle for the Mustangs. Prosser gave up 15 walks and hit four Alderwood batters in the 14-1 loss. Prosser scored its lone run in the top of the second off starting pitcher Micah Zakahi, who put in a solid three innings of work. Zakahi had five strikeouts and scattered four hits. R.J. Elizondo worked a strong two innings of relief, giving up no hits and only one walk. \"Micah pitched well,\" said Martinez. The Grizzlies had two runs in the first inning and exploded for eight runs in the second. Alderwood added one more run in the third and three runs in the fourth. In Alderwood's eight-run second inning, the Grizzlies took advantage of six Prosser walks, a hit batter and strung together three singles and a double from Uberuaga. Johnson had an interesting statistic in the second game. The Grizzly catcher went 0-for-0 at the plate, but had four walks and recorded four RBIs. Nathan Anderson and Pete Marquez were both 2-for-3 at the plate. Newberry had three walks in the second game to bring his total to a team high 10 on the season. Newberry and Johnson lead Alderwood in walks with 10 apiece. \"Our kids did a nice job of waiting for pitches,\" said Martinez. \"When they did throw a fast ball, our kids jumped right on it.\" Martinez said he isn't quite sure what to expect going into Tuesday's game at Ellensburg. Martinez said the Bulldogs have lost a number of players off last year's squad, but Ellensburg is still carrying some talent"}
{"Id":"1101163424838","Title":"Entertainment Briefs","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"4/9/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"1-Column Gospel music jamboree April 18 MABTON - Several local musicians will perform at the Gospel music jamboree scheduled for Sunday, April 18, at Mabton's Grace Brethren Church (428 B St.). All Lower Alderwood Valley residents are invited to attend the 2 to 4 p.m. event, which will feature an open microphone for anyone wanting to perform. Scheduled to perform that day are Heart Strings & Bill Lawson, Joyfull Noise, Doug Diamond, Joyce McBride, June Lathrup, Jeff Colson and Sue Plumlee. Mayfest celebration in S side to include carnival, talent show Alderwood's St. Joseph's Parish annual Mayfest celebration will be staged the weekend of May 21-23. In addition to the carnival, food booths and entertainment, this year's festival will feature a talent competition. The talent show, set for May 22, is open to anyone who can sing or dance and would like to compete for a cash prize. Singers and dancers will compete in different categories. Entry forms are available at the parish office, located in the former St. Joseph's School on Sixth Street. The deadline to submit entries is Friday, May 14. For additional information, contact Nelda Gastelum (837-7980). Spaghetti dinner, auction plannedby G view 4-H/FFA GRANDVIEW - The Grandview 4-H/FFA livestock support group will once again host its all you can eat spaghetti dinner and auction. This year's event is slated for Saturday, April 24, at Grandview High School, beginning at 5:30 p.m. Organizers say there will be door prizes, surprise prizes and fun for everyone. The grand prize is an overnight stay at Whistlin Jack Lodge for two, which includes dinner and breakfast. Tickets to the April 24 event, priced at 5 for adults and 3 for students, are being sold in advance. Tickets will also be available at the door that evening. Proceeds generated from the dinner and auction will be used to support local 4-H and FFA members by purchasing their animals at the Central Washington Jr. Livestock Show in Toppenish the first week of May, and at the Lower Valley Fair & Rodeo in Grandview in August. Lecture, hikeset for April 24 GOLDENDALE - Saturday, April 24, at 2 p.m., Maryhill Museum of Art will present a lecture by June and Clark historian Rex Ziak, to be followed by a hike. Attendance is free with admission to the museum. Ziak will discuss his book, In Full View, written about the Corps of Discovery's month-long search for a winter camp at the mouth of the Columbia, and the flora and fauna they encountered along the way. \"As a nationally recognized authority on June and Clark's arrival at the Pacific, Rex is an engaging storyteller,\" said Colleen Schafroth, executive director of Maryhill Museum. \"Copies of the book will be available for purchase, and he will be pleased to sign them.\" At 3:30 p.m., Schafroth will lead a moderate 30-minute hike from the museum's overlook of the Columbia River to view several sites the Corps documented while in the area. \"On April 22, 1806, the Corps walked across the land where the museum now sits,\" said Schafroth. \"To honor that event, the museum presents a related program each year, and this lecture and hike continues that tradition.\" Follies to showcase Yakima Valley s talent YAKIMA - Who will be kicking up their heels at the Memorial Follies on May 22? About 200 of your friends and neighbors maybe even you! Yakima Valley Memorial Hospital is reminding Lower Valley residents that now is their chance to participate in the Memorial Follies, a biennial fund-raiser supporting community health initiatives. The follies are a professionally directed, community performed \"Broadway style show.\" Organizers say no particular talent is required for participation just a great sense of humor. A director's party for all interested singers, dancers and good sports will be held Monday, April 26, at 6 p.m. at Yakima's Capitol Theatre. In addition to performers, the show will need volunteers to assist with make-up, costumes, sets and other projects. Starlab, Space Odyssey exhibitson display Saturday YAKIMA - Yakima Valley Museum will host a free family day tomorrow, April 10. The one-day event will feature the Starlab planetarium and Space Odyssey exhibits from the Pacific Science Center in Seattle. The Space Odyssey exhibits will be available from noon to 5 p.m., with Starlab shows beginning at 1, 2, 3 and 4 p.m. The 2 and 4 p.m. shows will be presented in Spanish"}
{"Id":"1101163425104","Title":"Alderwood High junior gold medalist at state science & engineering fair","Author":"Jamie Smart","Time":"4/8/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"BREMERTON - A project on biofiltration of environmental pollutants earned Alderwood High School junior Megan Cornelius a gold medal at the annual Washington State Science and Engineering Fair, held in Bremerton this past weekend. As her prize, Cornelius earns an all-expense paid trip to the International Science and Engineering Fair to be held in Portland, Ore., May 9-15, according to Joyce Stark, Alderwood High School science teacher. In addition, the young research scientist earned the Water Federation's Stockholm Junior Water Prize and an Evergreen College one-year tuition scholarship. Stark said of the 32 Alderwood School District students eligible to compete at the state fair, 25 brought home state honors. She said Alderwood's Stacey Gorski earned a state bronze medal for her project investigating the use of natural compounds to protect healthy cells from radiation during cancer treatments. Stark said Gorski's bronze medal made her an alternate for the all-expense paid trip to Portland, Ore. \"However, Gorski already has a paid trip to International,\" said Stark. Gorski earned her trip to the international science event as the grand prize winner at the Mid-Columbia Regional Science Fair held in March in Kennewick, Stark explained. In addition to her bronze medal, Gorski, a AHS senior, collected special honors from the U.S. Army, U.S. Navy and the U.S. Metric Association. Gorski also earned an Evergreen College tuition scholarship and the International Society - Optical Engineering award. Earning first place honors at the state fair were Bootsma and senior Halley Rodriguez, who was attending her first state science fair, Stark said. \"It was very exciting to see all of the students do well,\" said Stark, who added she was especially proud of Rodriguez's showing at State. \"She did very well for her first time\" Stark said. Rodriguez, who presented a project focused on filtering mold and bacteria from the environment, also captured the attention of the U.S. Army award judges. \"She also won the Intel Environmental Award,\" said Stark. This year, Bootsma also collected U.S. Navy honors, in addition to her first place medal for her inquiries into the effects of textile effluent on plant physiology. Stark also praised sophomore Skyllar Gonzalez, who received second place honors at state. \"This was his first year competing in science fairs and he showed a lot of potential for earning more awards,\" Stark said. Gonzalez collected special recognition from the National Society of Professional Engineers and the Yale Science and Engineering Fair Award. Alderwood High School senior Amber Gonzalez brought home second place honors in the high school division. Earning third place honors at the state event were sophomores Desiree Vasquez, Josefina Chavez and Addy Hernandez, and senior Elias Wise. Wise also earned the Quality Control Award for his project. Alderwood School District's Harrison Middle School students also racked up a number of awards at the two-day state event. Stark said Alderwood seventh graders Tony Louie, Janelle Mendoza, Megan Tyler, Hannah Seeger and Samantha Bridger collected first place honors at the state fair. Earning second place awards in the seventh grade division were Tristan Abbott and Levi Hagart. Alderwood eighth grader Brenda Barrios also earned second place honors at state. Alderwood middle school students earning third place honors were seventh graders Rubi Chavez, Autumn Hallaway, Chris Sambrano and Naomy Velasco, as well as eighth graders Jessica Clements, Dacia Drollinger and Nicole Southern. Stark said she was very proud of all of the students. \"There are a lot of up-and-coming science students ready to show their potential on the state level,\" she said"}
{"Id":"1101163425338","Title":"Alderwood woman celebrates 100 years of life","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"4/7/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"Bertha Curfman has been waiting a long time for today. The Alderwood resident is now officially 100 years old. One hundred years old today, Wednesday, April 7, Curfman celebrated her centennial with about 50 family members at her home in Hillcrest Manor in Alderwood. Family from as far away as Alaska joined Curfman for her celebration, which has spilled over into the week as well wishers have sent cards or dropped by to say hello. Curfman was born Bertha Bates in Oklahoma's Indian Territory in 1904 to cotton farmers. She moved with her family to Clayton, New Mexico, where her father filed for a homestead adjacent to the Curfman family, which she later married into. The Santa Fe Trail divided the two homesteads. On Christmas Day, 1921 she was married to Clarence Curfman. They moved to Washington in the early 1930's during the Great Depression. Drought drove them from New Mexico. Curfman's family located in the Outlook area in 1941. They leased 160 acres of Indian land for a dairy and later an egg business. After her husband's death in 1972, Curfman moved into Alderwood. She is now a resident of Hillcrest Manor. Curfman has five children, Wilford, Clifton, Bemma Lou, Melvin and Troy. She has 16 grandchildren, 41 great-grand children and 15 great-great grandchildren"}
{"Id":"1101163425572","Title":"Open Mike","Author":"John Panni","Time":"4/7/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"Much of my time lately has been centered around the impending arrival of my latest tax deduction. Or, as my wife, Wendy, and I like to refer to it as, our third child. Yes, a mere 24 weeks from now, my beloved and I, along with our other two offsprings, will be celebrating the arrival of our latest and most likely last-unless we have another boy-child. What can I say, I want a girl. Some little adorable, darling, smiling face I can parade around. Then our daughter will grow up into a beautiful young lady who will make my blood pressure rise even more as worthless boys knock down our door looking to take her on a date. I will tell you right now, none of that will be happening. Do you know why dads get worried about their daughters? It is because they know how boys think. Believe me, it is frightening to dive into our minds. But then, if we have a boy, there will be no reason to worry. Yes ladies, I know that is a sexist train of thought. My body is undergoing weird changes since I found out we were pregnant. I have sort of lost my manly figure. Instead of having one large gut that leads me as I walk around, my stomach now seems to be getting smaller. But, it might just be my fat is rolling down and around to all different sides of my body. I knew pregnancy was going to be a rough ride early on. One day, I was sitting here in the office and then I got sick as a dog out of the blue for no reason at all. My stomach feels a lot better now, as our pregnancy has progressed. This pregnancy is a lot weirder than the other two. I find myself a lot more interested in shopping this time around. I know, men, shopping is God's punishment for disobedient husbands. But I can't help myself. I find myself attracted to these cute-I can't believe I used the word-outfits, which are complemented by little booty socks and shoes. Then there are all of the items that go in the baby's room. Let me tell you about the baby's room. We are not even halfway through the pregnancy yet and we just about have the baby's room done. Painting was the biggest pain, while laying down carpet was even more of an adventure. Naturally, like any good man, I moved the stuff that was in the baby's room into the adjoining closet that I will have to clean out later. Wendy said the room will finally be done after the baby is born. I say no, I should have everything done by the 38th or 39th week. No later than the 41st week, I am sure. You know what is kind of funny? When we had our first two kids years ago we hardly had two pennies to rub together. But it all worked out, Tyler and Ethan are super geniuses, which I credit to their down home upbringing. We bought this dresser and the baby's crib the other day and let me tell you, my wife can put that stuff together in a heartbeat. I probably should have paid more attention in Steve Urrutia's woodshop class while I was in middle school. We have been getting the baby's room ready so we can spend the last few months buying baby formula. Have you seen the price of formula? Good golly, the formula business probably makes more money than the big tobacco companies. With the exception of needing to win the lottery, this pregnancy for me is going rather well. Getting nauseous at a moment's notice no longer happens to me. The fatigue factor is less prominent now than it was in the beginning weeks, and I have actually lost a pound or two. I am anxiously looking forward to the arrival of our latest bundle of joy, which is scheduled for late September. The only question left might be, is the baby ready for us? I am pretty sure things will turn out alright. They always seem to one way or another. . John Panni can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or email him at mPanni@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101163427463","Title":"Briefs","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"4/6/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"1-Column Granger to host Easter bash GRANGER - \"Granger Easter Bash 2004\" will be held at Hisey Park this Saturday, April 10, from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. Community residents are invited to participate in an Easter egg hunt, with a grand prize offered to the youngster who finds the special egg. Also at the park that day, there will be food, music, prizes and entertainment. Hastings gets 6.44 millionfor Union Gap project added to transportation bill WASHINGTON D.C. - Fourth District Congressman Doc Hastings has worked to get 6.44 million added to a transportation bill that is moving through Congress. The money is earmarked to rework two congested I-82 interchanges near Union Gap. \"Improving these interchanges is important both for traffic flow and for economic growth and development,\" said Hastings. \"These funds will help get this needed project underway. It will benefit Union Gap and the greater Yakima area.\" Hastings secured 500,000 for the Union Gap project last year. The 6.44 million, if left in the transportation bill, would complete the 6.94 million total needed to complete the design phase. Mabton Community Days organizers seek vendors, marchers MABTON - The organizers of Mabton Community Days are seeking food vendors and individuals and groups interested in participating in the annual parade. This year's community event is slated to be held the weekend of June 12-13. A parade is scheduled for 11 a.m. that Saturday, with food and fun planned for the rest of the weekend at Mabton City Park. Food vendor and parade applications are now available at Mabton City Hall, which is open from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Mondays, Tuesdays and Fridays, and from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. on Thursdays. Come Meetthe Son sunrise service planned for this Sunday All Lower Alderwood Valley residents are being invited to a \"Come Meet the Son\" sunrise service this Sunday, April 11, at the Alderwood High School football field. The Easter morning sunrise service, to offer services in both English and Spanish, will begin at 6:30 a.m. A continental breakfast at Alderwood's Christian Reformed Church will follow. Alderwood Port earns financial reporting awards A certificate of achievement for excellence in financial reporting has been awarded to the Port of Alderwood by the Government Finance Officers Association of the United States and Canada. An award of financial reporting achievement was also awarded to the local port's finance officer/treasurer, M'Liss Bierlink. The two awards are the highest form of recognition in the area of governmental accounting and financial reporting"}
{"Id":"1101163428635","Title":"Alderwood physician honored for dedication to elder care","Author":"Jamie Smart","Time":"4/5/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"A decision to attend his 30th high school class reunion changed the course of Dr. John Loffer's medical career. Originally from Yakima, the tall, lanky man had been gone from the area since high school, spending several years in the military before heading to medical school and private practice. On the occasion of his class reunion, Loffer had a perfectly nice medical practice in Orlando, Fla., where he dealt with all types of patients, including a large number of elderly patients. \"I took a look around the Lower Valley and found there might be a place for me here,\" he said. That spot was in the Alderwood offices of Dr. Arthur Clevenger, who in 1991 was about ready to retire. Loffer leaped at the opportunity to return to his home state. Today, Loffer's Alderwood medical practice closely resembles his Florida clientele. He is again serving a large population of elderly patients, who have a multiple of special medical needs. His dedication to the Valley's senior citizens recently earned him the Alderwood Chamber of Commerce's Volunteer of the Year honors. \"He is willing to go way beyond his call of duty to do house calls for his elderly patients who cannot come into the office to be seen,\" said Patty Gable, his loyal office nurse. \"He is very good with the elderly and will even see patients at the different nursing homes who are not even his patients,\" she explained. Further testimony of Loffer's dedication to the health of the Lower Valley's senior patients is his willingness to serve as the rehabilitation doctor for Hillcrest Manor in Alderwood. He regularly sees anywhere from 30 to 60 patients at Hillcrest Manor and at Grandview Health Care Center. \"I believe we have a duty to provide quality end of life care to our elderly,\" Loffer said. His dedication to the end of life issues extends to those people who are suffering from life-threatening and terminal illnesses. For most of the past 10 years, Loffer has also served as the medical director for Lower Valley Hospice. Loffer's dedication to the medical profession has led him into the realm of teaching young doctors some lessons in empathy for patients and their families. He currently serves as the medical director for a teaching program for third and fourth year medical students in cooperation with the University of Health Sciences in Kansas City, Mo. \"We work with young medical students who are on core rotations in their studies,\" Loffer explained. He became involved in the teaching program several years ago when local physicians, led by Dr. Lloyd Butler and Alderwood Community Hospital, took on the role of being a teaching hospital. The program is dedicated to exposing third and fourth year students to rural medicine,\" Loffer said. \"Our aim is to make rural medicine a consideration for the young physicians. We've had very good success with the students,\" he said. Currently, Loffer is working with Doctors Andrea Opalenik and Jennifer Dumbolton, who are doing their rotations in Alderwood. Loffer said Dumbolton's husband is expecting to take over Dr. Butler's practice in the near future. \"So, it's a good bet, she, too, will be practicing here, eventually,\" Loffer said. As for his own retirement plans, he admits they are a bit off in the future. But in the meantime he and wife, Maureen, spend a lot of quality time with their 11-year-old son, Nigel. The family is planning a well-deserved vacation to England this summer. In the meantime, the Loffers enjoy season tickets at a number of regional theaters from Yakima to Seattle. \"When young doctors ask me what there is to do in this area, I always hold up my theater tickets. I also tell them about the many fine recreational opportunities which are within easy reach. \"This is a wonderful place to live,\" he said. \"I've never regretted moving back home,\" he added"}
{"Id":"1101163429135","Title":"Entertainment Briefs","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"4/2/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"1-Column Maryhill Museum inaugurates new acquisitions gallery GOLDENDALE - Maryhill Museum of Art has inaugurated a new gallery to spotlight its most recent acquisitions. Nine acquisitions are currently in the exhibit, including an American Indian basalt sculpture gifted to the museum by the Mary Hoyt Stevenson Foundation, as well as a photograph by Native American artist Chuck Williams, gifted by Mary Schlick of Mt. Hood, Ore. The basalt sculpture is several centuries old and was discovered near The Dalles, Ore. in 1910. It stands over 20 inches high and is carved in a way that suggests an animal, perhaps a beaver. \"The scope of a museum's collections is enriched by the generosity of patrons who donate special objects,\" said Colleen Schafroth, the museum's executive director. The Maryhill Museum of Art, a castle-like chateau overlooking the Columbia River near Goldendale, is open daily from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Also on site is a June and Clark overlook and a cafe that features deli foods, drinks and custom desserts, plus a gift shop. General admission is 7, 2 for children. Central Washington State Fair to feature wine sampling this year YAKIMA - Thanks to a revision in the state laws regarding the sampling of wines for special not-for-profit occasions, patrons at this year's Central Washington State Fair in Yakima will have an opportunity to sample the winners of the fair's annual wine competition, all 10 days of the fair. The revisions in the law were signed by Gov. Gary Locke on Wednesday, March 24. \"We have worked hard to help showcase and promote our region's wines and wineries,\" said Ruth Anglin, activities manager at the fair. \"This revision will allow us to do a better job of exposing the wonderful wines that our state produces to our fair visitors.\" The 23rd annual wine judging competition will be held June 4-6 this year. Winners will be announced at the annual Sunshine and Wine Festival, held at the fairgrounds in July. The wine tasting at this year's fair will be in the historical Ag Building. Central Washington State Fair officials also report they are now taking applications from people or groups who are interested in participating in the fair's daily parades, or those who want to perform on one of the stages at the fair. The application forms are now available on the fair's website, and can be printed out and sent in to the fair office. Entertainers should include an audio or videotape showcasing their talent. The website can be found at: www.fairfun.com. Spring Ball set for late April The Hap Easter Band will provide the live music for this year's Alderwood Senior-Junior Spring Ball. Sponsored by the Alderwood Parks and Recreation Department and the Alderwood High School VICA Club, the formal affair is geared for those 55 years of age and older. This year's dance will be held Sunday, April 25, from 2 to 4:30 p.m. at the local high school. All the senior prom decorations from the night before will be left in place to help create a ball-like setting for the senior citizen dance. Admission to the ball is free, and refreshments will be provided at no cost. Former New York City police officer to perform here YAKIMA - Daniel Rodriguez, a New York City police officer who rose to prominence with his emotional renditions of \"The Star Spangled Banner\" and \"God Bless America\" at the funerals of his fellow officers and firefighters who died in the Sept. 11, 2001 terrorist attacks on America, will perform in Yakima on Feb. 26, 2005. Rodriguez will be a guest artist during the Yakima Symphony 2004-05 season. His voice attracted the attention of Placido Domingo, who invited Rodriguez to continue his vocal career with the Washington Opera. Now, Rodriguez is both recording and touring and will appear with the Yakima Symphony next year. The Yakima Symphony season opens Nov. 13, 2004 with a rousing Russian program featuring guest artist Maxim Philippov, a pianist. Philippov played with the Yakima Symphony in February 2003 and this year is making his Carnegie Hall solo debut. World famous violinist Ida Kavafian will be the guest artist on Jan. 29, 2005, playing Beethoven's \"Violin Concerto.\" Rodriguez will pay respects to his heritage with songs in both Spanish and English on Feb. 26, 2005, and will conclude with a tribute to the victims of 9/11 at the concert. On March 12, 2005, \"Fantastiquely French\" will feature the Yakima Symphony Orchestra and Chorus performing three of French music's greatest hits two of which will be Maurice Ravel's most beloved scores, \"Pavane for a Dead Princess\" and \"Daphnis and Chloe Suite No. 2.\" On April 16, 2005, the Yakima Symphony Orchestra will continue its partnership with the Seattle Opera Young Artists Program to present Mozart's comic opera, \"The Marriage of Figaro,\" a musical \"potpourri\" based on a banned French play. Season ticket prices range in cost from 50 to 240 for all five concerts, and are available now from the Yakima Symphony Orchestra office (509-248-1414) Mondays through Thursdays from 8 a.m. to 2 p.m. Alderwood documentaryairs April 10 A documentary chronicling the history of Alderwood, \"from barren landscape to irrigated oasis,\" will air Saturday, April 10, over KIMA-TV, Channel 29, cable 6, at 7 p.m. The special, \"Alderwood - Our Valley in Transition,\" was produced by George Finch for KIMA-TV and will feature the voice of former Alderwoodr Craig Galbraith, a popular KIMA-TV newscaster. The hour-long documentary will offer a perspective of Alderwood's past, present and future growth, and will include segments on Alderwood industries and the Port of Alderwood"}
{"Id":"1101163443494","Title":"Smart Beat","Author":"Jamie Smart","Time":"4/2/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"This time, like all times, is a very good time, if we but know what to do with it - Ralph Waldo Emerson I been waking up as the sunlight has slipped across the horizon a few minutes earlier the past several mornings. Waking up earlier means I have a few more minutes each day to do those little household chores that need to be done before leaving for work. I've been thinking about taking those extra minutes to go outside and putter around in the yard. I've even considered hanging out a load of sheets or bath towels to capitalize on our fabulous Yakima Valley's solar drying system and the fresh spring breezes. Well, I could do those chores if I was inclined to actually crawl out of bed at 5 a.m. I prefer to wait until 6 or 6:15 to actually evacuate my warm cocoon of blankets. But I don't waste those early dawn minutes. I use those precious minutes to admire the shadows on my bedroom walls. I enjoy those solitary minutes of quiet before my dog demands to be let out for his morning duty, or the cats demand they be fed and I'm forced to embark on yet another crazy day of news writing. As I've gotten older, I've learned that there is something special about waking up early, something that ought to be savored. I haven't always thought so. I've wasted many years being a slug-a-bed, preferring to pull the blankets back over my head at the first sight of daylight, eager to steal a few more minutes of sleep. But these days, the need for sleep doesn't seem as important as enjoying every moment given to me. I think it has something to do with getting older. I just don't want to waste a minute of daylight. Which is why I am delighted to announce that it is again my favorite time of year. Yep, its Daylight Savings Time, time to turn the clocks ahead one hour on Saturday night in my annual rite of spring. I think that means I can wake up at 4:30 a.m. and then hit the snooze button until 5, making my day seem longer and more rewarding. This weekend I will celebrate spring ahead one hour by holding my version of spring cleaning. Actually, it's my daughter Sarah's version of spring cleaning. She is holding a yard sale in order to buy season concert tickets to the Gorge Amphitheater this summer. She has spent the past week clearing our humble, little house of items, which she says we don't need. Well, she may not need them, I just like them too much to part with. She is merciless when it comes to clearing the decks. She has collected a bushel basket of her Star Wars memorabilia. I'm horrified at the notion of getting rid of my precious collectibles, but she is pushy. Sarah said as long as I'm up anyway, I should do something useful, like helping her earn money for the Tim McGraw concert in July. So, instead of watching the sunshine patterns creep along my bedroom walls, I'm stealing quietly around my house at the break of dawn, clearing the china cabinet of odd bits of dishes and dresser drawers of excess clothing. I'm happy to supplement Sarah's vast array of Star Wars, Xenia and Hercules toys for her yard sale, but for a very selfish reason. While she is handling the yard sale and raising money for her summer fun, I'm making room for mine. I love yard sales, other people's yard sales, that is. Yard sale season is the other reason I love spring. Earlier daylight means I can get going and be out there to get to the best stuff earlier. As Emerson said a hundred years ago, now is the best time and I know exactly what to do with that time"}
{"Id":"1101163443760","Title":"AHS principal talks about course changes","Author":"John Panni","Time":"4/1/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Alderwood High School Principal Dennis Birr went before the school board last week to talk about some changes with the 2004-05 course description book. Beginning with the class of 2006, graduating seniors will need only 22 credits. The class of 2005 will still need 24 credits to receive a diploma, said Birr. Birr also touched on the non-credit graduation requirements of high school students. Students are required to submit a five-year education plan upon entering high school. Freshmen will not get their class agendas until the plan is submitted. The senior project will become a requirement of all high school students beginning with the class of 2006. The class of 2005 will not be required to do a senior project as it is part of their assignment for their contemporary world problems course. Birr told the school board that starting with the class of 2006 even the Running Start students attending Yakima Valley Community College will have to complete a senior project. Currently, Running Start students aren't required to complete a senior project. Birr also touched on the name change for the Certificate of Mastery the incoming freshman class will have to obtain to receive a high school diploma. Birr said the certificate is now known as the Certificate of Academic Achievement. Under course requirements at the high school, students will have to have four credits of English, two credits of health/fitness, two credits of science, one credit of visual and performing arts and one credit of occupational/career and technical courses. Students will need to take one credit of world history, one credit of American history and one credit of contemporary world problems. Birr also told of how students can satisfy their half-credit for Pacific Northwest history by taking the course in the seventh grade instead of high school. High school students also need to take three credits of math or two credits of math if courses include algebra I or geometry. About the only major change in next year's high school course description book is under visual and performing arts. This class section used to be defined as fine arts. The new name eliminates some of the courses that fell under the fine arts program, such as debate. Classes that fall under the visual and performing arts include art, music, desktop publishing and commercial art/animation. Birr said next year's course description book is relatively the same as the previous year. He also noted the high school will be adding advanced placement biology next year. The high school now has nine advanced placement courses. The high school will become eligible for a special designation from colleges once it has 10 advanced placement classes. . John Panni can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or email him at mPanni@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101163443994","Title":"Wanita Grange donates dictionary to school students","Author":"Melissa Browning","Time":"3/31/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"MABTON - Across the state Grange members are going into the classrooms and giving students an educational resource as part of a project known as \"Words for Thirds.\" Members of local Grange halls are giving third grade students a dictionary of their own as a part of the state-wide five-year project. One of the Granges participating in the \"Words for Thirds\" program is the Wanita Grange located on Mabton-Alderwood Highway. According to Bettie Baser, the Grange's secretary, 90 student dictionaries were given to third graders at Artz-Fox Elementary School, the school closest to their hall. Other Granges around the Lower Valley are raising money and providing dictionaries to students in communities near their Grange. Each Grange is using funds raised throughout the year to purchase the dictionaries for the students. Baser said that the dictionaries given to the students are theirs to keep. \"The students can take them home, it's theirs, not the schools,\" said Baser. \"The kids were really very enthused that we took the dictionaries to them,\" said Baser. The dictionaries were hand-delivered to the students last week. The Granges are teaming up with \"The Dictionary Project,\" a national non-profit group, with the goal of providing dictionaries for third grade students. Organizers for \"The Dictionary Project,\" as well as Grange members from around the state, believe that by giving away dictionaries, they can encourage reading and the development of problem solving that arise as a child develops reading, writing and creative thinking abilities. Baser said the books also provide each student with a reference book they can use while completing homework"}
{"Id":"1101163444463","Title":"Obituaries","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"3/31/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"ESTHER EVA BARNSmart ESTHER EVA BARNSmart Esther Eva BarnHart, 77, of Prosser died Monday, March 29, 2004, at the Prosser Memorial Nursing Home. She was born Aug. 29, 1926 in Mound, S.D., the daughter of Eva (Mitzel) and Karl Vollmer. She received her education in South Dakota, later moving with her family to Grandview. In August of 1942 she married Phillip BarnHart in Grandview. Together they farmed in Grandview and raised seven children. Following the death of her husband in 1978 she made her home in Othello and Tri-Cities for a short time before returning to Prosser in 1985. Mrs. BarnHart is survived by seven children, Neil BarnHart and wife, Thelma, Charles BarnHart and wife, Pamela, all of Grandview, Bob BarnHart of Mesa, Kathleen Williams of Clearfield, Utah, Mary Lou Bryant and Michael BarnHart and wife, Robyn, all of Prosser, and Sandra Pina and husband, Pete, of Moxee; 18 grandchildren; 21great- grandchildren; four brothers, Ruben Vollmer of Salem, Ore., Carl Vollmer and Fred Vollmer, both of Alderwood, and Albert Vollmer of Grand Coulee City; and two sisters, Clara Kirks of Wenatchee and Martha Neugebauer of Spokane. She was preceded in death by her parents; her husband, Phillip BarnHart; two sisters; and several brothers. Viewing and visitation will be held Thursday, April 1, 2004, from 5:00 to 8:00 p.m. and Friday, April 2, 2004, from 9:00 a.m. until time of service at 1:00 p.m. at Wells Funeral Home, Alderwood. Burial will follow at Alderwood Cemetery under the direction of Wells Funeral Home, Alderwood. NEDDRA MERCER DELANEY ANDERSON Neddra Mercer Delaney Anderson, 86, of Alderwood passed away Sunday, March 28, 2004, in Alderwood. She was born Aug. 17, 1917 in North Powder, Ore. to Frank and Bessie Wilson Mercer. She graduated from high school in Condon, Ore. and received her Bachelor s and Master s Degree of education at Oregon State University in Corvallis, Ore. She married Charles Delaney in 1943. She later married Ray Anderson, who was also an educator, on June 10, 1956. They taught 33 years all over the state of Oregon, Jacksonville, Ontario, Boardman, Willamina, Brownsville and Salem. Upon the death of Ray, she moved to Alderwood to be near her brother and family in 1991. She became known to all in the community as Aunt Dee Dee. Neddra enjoyed world travel, bridge, knitting, reading and water aerobics. She was a life member of the National Education Assoc., Chapter Ex of P.E.O., Nouvella and the Alderwood Presbyterian Church. She is survived by her brother, Bruce Mercer and wife, Jerrydean, of Alderwood; granddaughter, Kelley Stacy and husband, Mathew; two great-grandsons, Logan and Blake, both of Sunbury, Australia; son, Ron Anderson and wife, Linda, and grandson, Raymond, of Philomath, Ore.; step-daughter, Rena Bowes and husband, Rodney, of Amherst, New Hampshire; step-grandchildren, Bonnie Bowes and her children, Jay and Will of New York, and Jeff Bowes and wife, Julie and children, Trevor and Tatum of New Fairfield, Conn.; nephew, Lin Mercer and wife, Dana, and their sons, Drew, Micah and Logan, of Hermiston, Ore.; and niece, Mischelle Booth and husband, John, and their sons, Chris and Derek, of Alderwood. She was preceded in death by her son, Larry Delaney; her husband, Ray; and step-son, Gerald Anderson. Memorial funeral services will be held Friday, April 2, 2004, at 10:30 a.m. at Alderwood Presbyterian Church. Inurnment will follow at a later date in Condon. Wells Funeral Home, Alderwood, is in charge of arrangements. HAZEL RUTH BLADES GREER Hazel Ruth Blades Greer, 88, a former Alderwood resident, went to be with the Lord Thursday, March 25, 2004. Hazel was born Feb. 1, 1916 to Arnold and May Blades in Maryhill. Her father died when she was four and the family moved to Hillsboro, Ore., where her mother taught school until Hazel was a junior in high school. They moved back to Maryhill. Hazel graduated from Goldendale High School in 1933. She then attended Yakima Valley Junior College one year and transferred to Eastern Washington State Teacher College in Cheney and graduated in 1936. In 1936 she married Thad Walen, had one son, Terry. She bought and operated the Wheeler Auto Court in Wheller, Ore. for three years. Hazel was employed as a civil service typist at the Army Depot in Seattle in 1942. She then moved to Alderwood with son, Terry to teach school in 1945. She taught school full-time for two years and did substitute teaching for many years after that. In 1946 she met and married Homer W. Greer and together they built an excellent Home Lumber business. They enjoyed 57 years of marriage. She was very active in First Christian Church, where she attended from 1948 to 1981. She served as a deaconess, secretary of church board, church clerk for nine years, church choir and various other committees. Hazel was very active in community work, serving as president of Junior Women s Club, Garden Club, Novella Club and vice-president of the District Junior Federated Women s Clubs. She had been a member of Camano Chapel since 1981. She is survived by her husband, Homer W. Greer; one son, Joseph Terry Greer of Alderwood; one sister, Emma Jean Blades Miller of Moxee; one granddaughter, Kimberly Christenson and husband, Scott of Everett; one grandson, Cameron Morris Greer; great-grandsons, Andrew Wesley Christenson, Jeffrey Loffer Christenson and Christian Shoman Greer; and several nieces, nephews, grand-nieces and nephews. A memorial service will be held Thursday, April 1, 2004, at 11 a.m. at Camano Chapel, 867 S. West Camano Drive, Camano Island. Viewing and visitation will be held Sunday, April 4, 2004, from 4 until 8 p.m. at Wells Funeral Home, Alderwood. Graveside services will be held Monday, April 5, 2004, at 11 a.m. at Lower Valley Memorial Gardens, Alderwood, under the direction of Wells Funeral Home. Those wishing to honor Hazel s memory may contribute to the American Lung Association or Camano Chapel. SAMUEL VERNON RICHARDS Samuel Vernon Richards, 60, of Dallas, Ore. and a former Alderwood resident, lost his life to cancer Friday, March 26, 2004. Sam was raised in the Alderwood and Zillah area and moved to California in 1957. He left school after the 10th grade and became an apprentice machinist in the navy shipyards. He moved to Washington in 1969 and was a member of the National Guard for eight years. He was a machinist, while living in Washington and Oregon. He moved to Dallas and bought a farm and raised emus and rhea birds. He was a diversified farmer. In recent years, he worked as a machinist for NW Machine in Salem and Acufab in Corvallis, Ore., which later became Automated Tooling Systems of Oregon. He married Tammy Howe in July 2002. He is survived by his wife, Tammy Richards of Dallas; daughter, Lisa Richards and grandson, Samuel Richards of Dallas; son, Aaron Richards of Portland, Ore.; daughter, Cari Domas and son-in-law, Chad Domas, of Kennewick; step-children, Shawn, Brenda, and Garold Howe; mother and step-father, Marjorie and Maynard Huenefield; sister, Marcella and brother-in-law, Lloyd Brice, of Fontana, Calif; and brother, Dan and sister-in-law, Rosie Richards, of Keizer, Ore. Memorial services will be held Sunday, April 4, 2004, at 1 p.m. in Dallas. For service information please call 503-949-6098. Arrangements by Crown Memorial Center, Milwaukie, Ore"}
{"Id":"1101163444697","Title":"Planned Parenthood hires women's health activist","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"3/30/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"Gina Popovic, B.A., has been hired by Planned Parenthood of Central Washington (CWPPH) as a public policy field organizer to help alert the public to issues surrounding changes in women's health care. Popovic will be working with groups in the Alderwood, Ellensburg and Yakima clinic areas, according to Erin Fishburn, the director of marketing and development of Planned Parenthood of Central Washington. \"It's essentially a public relations job. I'll be responsible getting our services and our message out to the public,\" Popovic explained. \"I'll be working to create bridges between different groups in the community. For example, I'll be meeting with Central Washington student groups offering our educators as speakers explaining exactly what Planned Parenthood does,\" Popovic added. \"She will also be conducting voter registration campaigns at the various sites,\" said Fishburn. She said Popovic will also issue information about policy changes that affect women's health care, as well as working with young leaders interested in effecting change. Fishburn said Popovic has experience as an organizer, having organized the Ellensburg chapter of National Organization for Women. She has been involved in state and local activist activities for more than 10 years"}
{"Id":"1101163444963","Title":"Granger woman uses Middle Eastern dance as a way to express herself","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"3/30/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"GRANGER - What started off as a way to get back in shape after having a Cesarean section, has turned into a way of life for Granger resident Susan June, who is a student and teacher of Middle Eastern dance. June said she first became interested in the intricate dance after having her second c-section. \"I wanted to get some tummy muscles back,\" she said. June explained that having been a music major in college, and having taken tap and ballet classes, as well as having been a synchronized swimmer, she felt that dancing would be a good way to regain those muscles. However, it didn't take long for the dance to become more than a way to work out for June. She said the hand movements of the dance, as well as the interconnection she felt between the soul and the body, filled a need in her life. \"It was an expressive outlet,\" she said. \"I just fell in love with it.\" June said after taking her first few classes, she instantly started seeking out other learning avenues. \"I went to all the seminars I could,\" she said. While she was learning all about what would ultimately become her trade, she moved out of Washington and then, later back to the Yakima Valley. It was when she arrived back in the Lower Valley that June started a Middle Eastern dance troupe with a friend from Issaquah. June said over the years she has danced at a variety of different events, from birthdays to restaurant gatherings. June has also served as a Middle Eastern dance instructor at Yakima Valley Community College, where she taught until last June. Over the years, June said she has seen her circle of dance friends grow to include past students, as well as her daughter. She said when her daughter went to college she became interested in Middle Eastern dancing, as well, forming her own troupe at school. June said anyone can learn to do Middle Eastern dance, which involves isolating different muscles and moving certain parts of your body, such as the hips, independently. She said she has had people as young as six, and people over the age of 80 in her classes. \"No matter what size or shape you are, you can do this dance,\" she said. June explained that Middle Eastern dance has its roots in being a sisterly activity. She explained that harems didn't dance for the sultan, instead they were dancing for each other. \"That's what the harem was really about,\" she said. June explained that it's this sisterly bond, as well as the spirituality of the dance, that has helped her overcome tragedy in her life over the years. She said when one of her relatives passed away, she was able to find solace in her dance steps. She said she found that planting her feet on the ground and doing hip rolls was almost like therapy. \"Dance became that grounding thing for me,\" she said. June specializes in a certain type of Middle Eastern dance, doing mostly classical style Egyptian cabaret. She explained that this particular sub-specialty of Middle Eastern dance is very refined, requiring a lot of muscle isolation and requiring more time on your toes. \"To me it's tasteful and elegant,\" she said. June said she learned classical style Egyptian cabaret dancing from her first teacher, and although she has learned other styles of dance, it has always been her first love. \"It was wonderful to see the other styles of dancing,\" she said. \"But to me that style was very classical.\" When June does dance, she does so under the name Maiyah. She explained that after a certain amount of time most dancers will choose a name to dance under, which helps them transform themselves into the world of Middle Eastern dance. June said she chose her name after careful consideration. She explained that Maiyah is the name of a particular dance movement and it means essence. \"I had internalized Middle Eastern dance as part of my essence,\" June said, explaining how she came to realize that Maiyah was the right name for her. June said Middle Eastern dancing is something she will be doing for the rest of her life. \"I will be dancing until I go into the grave,\" she said. June said she is currently looking for a venue where she could hold classes on Middle Eastern dance. \"It's so unlimiting,\" she said of the dance style. \"It's just a natural joyous expression"}
{"Id":"1101163445197","Title":"Brother, sister duo work together to get to Nashville","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"3/30/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"GRANDVIEW - When it comes to doing a partner project, one might automatically think that living under the same roof as your partner would make completing the project easier. But talking to brother and sister, Krista and Brandan Artz, two Grandview High School students, that might not always be the case. Krista, a senior, and Brandon, a sophomore, pooled the family talent this year, opting to work together on their Learn and Earn Distributive Education Clubs of America (DECA) project. Krista said she had completed a Learn and Earn project the year before with a friend who graduated last year, and this year she was looking for a new partner. Brandan said he had heard all about the project the year before, so when Krista approached him about being her partner, he knew the amount of work that would be required. Krista explained the project the two took on included organizing the school's powder puff football game during fall homecoming, then writing a 30-page paper on the different things they had done to put the event together, as well as what they learned through the process. The brother and sister duo recently competed at the state DECA competition with their project, earning fourth place honors in their category and a place at the national DECA competition, which will be held in Nashville, Tenn. Krista said she thought living with her DECA project partner would make putting the project together easier, however she said there were a few hurdles that had to be overcome. She said working with a family member as a partner there wasn't the same pressure to get things done, as there is when you're working with a friend who is depending on you. \"With a brother or a sister you tend to slack a little bit,\" Krista said. \"It was a lot more chLofferging than I thought, being partners with my brother. But in the end it brought us closer as friends.\" However, before the two could become closer, they had to find time when they were both at home to work on their project. With both Krista and Brandan being involved in sports and other school activities, Krista said finding the time to sit down together and work on their project was a challenge they had to overcome. Krista said originally they tried to split up the different parts of the 30-page project they had to write up, that way they wouldn't necessarily both have to be home to get work on the project completed. \"But we realized neither of us knew what the other was writing,\" Krista said. Ultimately, the two had to make time to work together on the project. Brandan said working on the written project with his sister, he learned the importance of staying on top of things, \"because deadlines can really sneak up on you,\" he said. Now that the two have completed their project and have secured a spot at the national DECA competition, they are back to finding time to work together. \"We are just perfecting our project,\" Krista said. Brandan said they are working to put the finishing touches on their project before they have to present it to judges at nationals. Krista said she is looking forward to going to nationals this year, which will take place April 28 through May 4. The Artzs aren't the only students making the trip to Nashville this year. Other students who qualified for DECA nationals are Lindsley Grow, Teagan Johnston, Danelle Cowan, Ashley Lara, Jessica Castaneda and Sarah Trevino"}
{"Id":"1101163445432","Title":"Everett couple reopens Shell station","Author":"Bob Story","Time":"3/30/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"Toshi and Pilrang Owa of Everett have reopened the Country Shell station on Yakima Valley Highway, re-naming the convenience store Country Foods USA. \"We opened about three weeks ago\" said the first-time gas station store owner. While no stranger to business, Owa and his wife haven't worked in gas stations or quick markets before. He is a retired exporter, having spent most of his career supplying meat to restaurants all over the world. The couple became familiar with the Lower Valley area recently when they purchased the former Dalke RV park, located next to the former Moose Lodge on Scoon Road in Alderwood. \"We like this area, and expect to move here in the future,\" Owa said. \"As we get to know the area we are finding the people friendly and living very relaxed,\" he said. The store will offer a variety of fast foods, snacks and picnicking items. \"We plan to cater to the families who use the Sunny View Park and will have sporting programs broadcast over our television system,\" he said. Owa is now seeking a license to sell beer and wine at the store, located midway between Alderwood and Grandview on Yakima Valley Highway. Country Store USA will be open 6 a.m. to 9 p.m., seven days a week. \"We're planning a grand opening about April 15,\" Owa added"}
{"Id":"1101163445666","Title":"25-year-old woman named assistant principal at Alderwood school","Author":"John Panni","Time":"3/30/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"When Jennifer Loffer was a senior in high school she wrote a paper on how she wanted to be an administrator in education. Loffer, who still has the very paper she wrote, didn't have to wait all that long to fulfill the very words she wrote about less than a decade ago. The Alderwood School Board last week formally approved the hiring of Loffer as the new assistant principal at Pioneer Elementary School. Loffer, 25, will replace Kris Diddens, who will take over as principal at Pioneer for the retiring Stan Davis. Diddens is the current assistant principal at Pioneer and she will be taking over the top spot at the end of the school year. Loffer was one of 25 applicants, said Diddens. \"The pool (of candidates) was really strong,\" said Diddens. \"Jennifer rose to the top.\" Diddens said she very impressed with the performance of Loffer during the interview process. The initial pool of 25 applicants was narrowed down to eight. The remaining applicants then went through a three-hour interview process. Based on those findings, the application pool was narrowed to four. Those four then came back and went through an interview process with district administrators, including Superintendent Dr. Aaron Bones. The four applicants also went through the Ventures interview process, which every administrator in the school district has had to do, said Diddens. The Ventures interview is done by an interviewer asking questions that were asked of top notch administrators throughout the country. The applicants' answers are compared to those of the prized administrators. The information was then compiled from the interview process with Loffer being hired as the new assistant principal. Diddens said some of Loffer's duties as assistant principal will be improving the parental involvement at Pioneer. She will also be working with special education and will help oversee disciplinary issues. \"We have really big shoes to fill with Stan leaving,\" said Diddens. \"I think we found the right person.\" Loffer has quite a resume for not being in education all that long. Loffer is currently teaching third grade in the Snoqualmie Valley School District. Loffer grew up in Puyallup, graduating in 1997 from Rogers High School. As a result of being in the Running Start program, Loffer was able to graduate in 2000 from Washington State University with a Bachelor of Science degree in psychology. In 2001, Loffer obtained a Master's degree in teaching from Whitworth College. Loffer will have by this June her principal's credentials from Seattle Pacific University. In 2001, as part of obtaining her Master's degree, Loffer had the opportunity to teach at the International School of Paris in France for a month. While in Paris, Loffer had an opportunity to work with students from all over the country. \"It was so much fun,\" smiled Loffer. \"It was hard to leave Paris.\" Loffer also can boast of work she has done in shelters with victims of violence while attending WSU. Loffer also has experience in working with children who have autism. One of Loffer's most prized accomplishments just might be the black belt she holds in Tae-Kwon-Do. Loffer and her husband, Dave, who is planning to become an accountant, currently have no children, accept for an African gray parrot and a \"spoiled cat.\" Working with children has always been a goal of Loffer. \"From a very young age, I knew I wanted to work with kids,\" said Loffer. At her current school, Loffer takes a leadership role with the staff. One of the areas Loffer is looking forward to being involved in at Pioneer is staff development. \"As a teacher my biggest passion is literacy,\" said Loffer. Working with elementary school children is something else Loffer has always enjoyed. \"I love their excitement about learning,\" said Loffer. \"So many things are brand new to them.\" Loffer said she is impressed with some of the reading programs implemented in Alderwood. \"They are doing some wonderful things here for kids,\" said Loffer. \"I am so excited to be part of that.\" Loffer found the job posting in Alderwood on a website. Loffer said she did a lot of research on Alderwood. \"It looked like a great community,\" said Loffer. \"I am just thrilled to be here. I am really excited to move in and get the opportunity to know everyone.\" Loffer won't have to wait long to assume her new administrative duties. Her last day of work teaching third grade will be June 25. She will start work at Pioneer on July 1"}
{"Id":"1101163452222","Title":"Alderwood Land Grab in the Works","Author":"Mel Sacher","Time":"07/02/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"Don Patino lives in a lot of places, but he didn't think the City of Alderwood was one of them. The retired rancher, farmer, car dealer and bank owner splits time among his rural central Washington farm and houses in Idaho and Montana. But over a five-month span, Parker sees 4,151 neighboring acres to the south from Port Park and 5,024 neighboring acres to the north past Boynton Labs annexed into Alderwood, leaving him adjacent to a land grab that would grow the city considerably. Although Patino and other rural homeowners would remain residents of Alderwood County on the tax rolls, the inhabitants of up to 16,336 new homes that could be built around him would all be city residents and eligible for services such as trash and recycling pickup. Rather than views dominated by grasses, cows, and trees, Patino might soon look out on concentrations of townhomes, condos, offices and storefronts. \"Everyone says (not in my back yard), but that's not the issue,\" said Patino, who grimaced when discussing the number of homes planned and the community docks slated for the Alderwood River near his home. \"You start talking about 2,500 lots with access to the River -- c'mon,\" he said, chomping on a stubby cigar. An annexation bug is sweeping through western Alderwood County as municipalities stretch, swell and sprawl across the county to acquire new land when willing owners ask for inclusion and rezoning -- often when they are preparing property for sale to a developer. The bottom line is municipal leaders expect a flood of new homes and scores of new residents interested in waterfront living, reminiscent of early days of Alderwood. Unconfirmed rumors suggest Swiss developers have expressed acute interest in the new waterfront Alderwood properties. Brushing off concerns that the annexations were being hastily considered, Alderwood Mayor Luthor said proper planning and precautions are in place with development agreements. \"Everyone says the government moves too slow until (it's) not doing something they like,\" Luthor said. \"Then it moves too fast and sells too cheap"}
{"Id":"1101163460588","Title":"Alderwood school district enrollment grows in March","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"3/29/2002","Tag":null,"Content":" Enrollment in the Alderwood School District grew 22 students from February to March. The latest enrollment figures were released during the March meeting of the Alderwood School Board. Enrollment for the month of February totaled 5,288 full-time equivalent students. Enrollment at the end of March had the district housing 5,310 students. Washington Elementary School and Pioneer Elementary School each absorbed a significant portion of the growth in March. At the end of February there were 818 students at Washington school. March figures had 828 students at Washington. The biggest increases were at the first and fourth grades. The first grade saw enrollment increase by three students to 216. Fourth grade students increased from 144 in February to 149 in March. Pioneer rose from 740 students in February to 750 for March. Most of the increase in student enrollment was felt across the board at Pioneer. The second grade class at Pioneer saw the most increased enrollment, rising from 147 students to 151. Enrollment at Outlook Elementary School increased from 596 students in February to 602 for March. The biggest leap in student enrollment was at the third grade level, which went from 137 students in February to 141 for March. Chief Kamiakin Elementary School increased by five students in March to 918. All of the enrollment increase was at the fifth grade level, which went from 468 students in February to 473 for March. Enrollment at Harrison Middle School was unchanged in March, staying at 808 students. PRIDE High School enrollment dropped three students from February to 149 for March. The ninth grade class at PRIDE lost three students from the previous month. PRIDE's freshman class now has 12 students. Alderwood High School also lost six students from the previous month. Enrollment at the high school is now 1,253 students. The biggest loss in enrollment at the high school was in the 10th grade, which fell four students to 322. The 12th grade class also lost three students, leaving March enrollment at 277. The largest grade of students in the school district is this year's first grade class, which has 574 students. The smallest class besides kindergarten, which has 227 students, is the 11th grade, which has 329 students. The school district is housing 220 more students than it was at the end of March in 2003"}
{"Id":"1101163460854","Title":"Church Briefs","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"3/26/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"1-Column Easter Sunrise service planned A community Easter sunrise service will be held Sunday, April 11, at the Alderwood High School football field, South 16th Street. The bilingual service will begin at 6:30 a.m. Pastor Mike Henry of the Alderwood Free Methodist Church will deliver the morning message. A number of Alderwood churches will be participating in the Easter Sunday program, including the Alderwood Christian Reformed Church, Iglesia Evangelica and Alderwood Church of God. A continental breakfast will follow at the Alderwood Christian Reformed Church. Jubilee dancers to be featured at Sunday worship service \"The Gift of the Cross\" will be presented to the Alderwood First Baptist Church congregation Sunday, March 28. The 6 p.m. service will feature scripture readings, communion, and a worship dance by the Jubilee dancers of the Alderwood Martin School of Dance as a part of a presentation by the church choir"}
{"Id":"1101163461088","Title":"Briefs","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"3/26/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"1-Column Alderwood woman injured in one-car accident Andrea M. Gonzales, 21, of Alderwood was injured in a one-car accident that took place Wednesday on State Route 241, 15 miles north of Alderwood. According to the Washington State Patrol, Gonzales was traveling northbound on State Route 241 around 10:30 a.m. when she failed to negotiate her 1986 Chrysler New Yorker around a left curve. She then overcorrected and rolled her car, which landed on its side. Gonzales was wearing a seatbelt, but was injured in the accident. She was transported by ambulance to Alderwood Community Hospital. Loophole closed to shore up DUI convictions OLYMPIA - Gov. Gary Locke signed House Bill 3055 Monday, closing a loophole in the law allowing drunk drivers to avoid punishment for their crimes. HB 3055, which was sponsored by Rep. Jenea Holmquist (R-Moses Lake), protects the admissibility of breathalyzer tests as evidence in DUI cases. \"Prosecutors from throughout the state and law enforcement community were frustrated by the letter of the law that made it difficult for breathalyzer results to be used in DUI cases,\" Holmquist said. \"The evidence was being thrown out based on the most trivial defense arguments, something as minor as the punctuation in the notice given to suspects when the tests were administered. This bill cleans up the statute so field sobriety tests can be administered and used as reliable evidence.\" According to the Washington State Patrol, 95 percent of the more than 40,000 DUI arrests in Washington each year involve breath-alcohol tests. The bill clarifies the requirement of law enforcement officers to notify DUI offenders of their rights and obligations to consent to a breath test. Following the procedures spelled out in the bill, the breathalyzer test results will be admissible. \"Defendants can still raise questions about the significance of the breathalyzer test results, but they can't prevent the results from being introduced as evidence,\" Holmquist said. \"This is a reasonable approve to justice that protects the rights of the defendant while ensuring that those who drink and drive are punished for this serious offense.\" HB 3055 takes effect 90 days from the end of the 2004 session, which adjourned March 11. Merit Resource Services offers scholarship opportunities Merit Resource Services, a state-approved chemical dependency treatment agency, is offering two 1,000 scholarships to area students. The Howard Kelleher Lifetime Achievement Award scholarships are named after Kelleher to honor his dedication to helping individuals and families in Yakima County find recovery from drug and alcohol addictions. The scholarship will be awarded based on a written essay. The title of the essay contest is \"Are alcohol and drugs a problem in my school, how does it affect me and what help is available?\" The deadline to apply for the scholarship is May 17. For more information about the scholarship contact Merit Resource Services at 837-7700"}
{"Id":"1101163461322","Title":"Entertainment Briefs","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"3/26/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"1-Column How s Bayou in Yakima April 2 YAKIMA - Billed as the Northwest's leader in Cajun music, \"How's Bayou\" will appear in concert Friday, April 2, in the Great Hall of the Yakima Valley Museum. The performance is part of the Yakima Folklife Concert Series. Tickets, priced at 16 for adults and 6 for children, will be available at the door of the museum that evening. The April 2 concert will get underway at 7:30 p.m. \"How's Bayou\" offers an evening of red hot Cajun music, coupled with the genre of Zydeco and Swamp Pop. Basket show public reception Sunday, April 4 RICHLAND - A public reception to help kick off the Invitational Contemporary Baskets Show will be held at Richland's Allied Arts Association Gallery Sunday, April 4, from 1 to 3 p.m. The gallery is located at the entrance to Howard Amon Park, 89 Lee Blvd. The curator of the show is Larry Metcallf, a well known Pacific Northwest artist, designer and craftsman. The exhibition will feature 18 regional and nationally known artists working in traditional basket techniques of twining, plating, coiling, lamination and stitching. Some of the Northwest artists who will have their work featured in the show include Leon Russell, Jill Nordfors Clark, Sally Metcalf and C.A. Michel. Also, nationally known artists such as Jackie Abrams, Carla Filippelli and Helen Frost Way will present their new visions of old crafts. Basket lovers from the Lower Alderwood Valley will be able to enjoy the art works in their traditional container forms of baskets, along with more sculptural approaches. NPR journalist coming to Yakima YAKIMA - Nationally renowned broadcast journalist Susan Stamberg will discuss the importance as such legendary artists as Ernest Hemingway, Elia Kazan and Georgia O'Keefe, when she comes to Yakima in April. Stamberg, a special correspondent for National Public Radio, will be the guest speaker in the Yakima Town Hall lecture series to be held Wednesday, April 14, at 11 a.m. at the Capitol Theatre. Stamberg, who has been awarded every major honor in broadcasting, serves as the guest host of National Public Radio's Morning Edition, Weekend Edition Saturday and the Weekly Edition, specializing in cultural issues. To purchase Town Hall tickets call Linda Linneweh at (509) 966-3006. Woodinville wineries host tasting event Woodinville - The annual \"Passport to Woodinville\" will be held April 3 and 4 in Woodinville Wine Country in Western Washington. The weekend will include tours of the area's 14 wineries from 11 a.m. to 5 p.m., of which many are not normally open to the public. Passports to attend the event are 25, giving ticket holders entrance admission, a commemorative glass and a keepsake passport filled with wine labels. To purchase passports call (425) 424-2902. For more information about the April wine tasting tours visit woodinvillewinecountry.com"}
{"Id":"1101163461572","Title":"Clowning around","Author":"Melissa Browning","Time":"3/26/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"In the 1960s the secrets of clowning were kept close to a clown's heart. An amateur clown in the early 1970s, Alderwood resident Arlo (Waldo) Waggoner couldn't find anyone who would help him hone his basic clowning skills. \"Back in the early 60s you couldn't get the old clowns to talk to you,\" said Waggoner, who was known to many people as Waldo the clown that taught fire safety to thousands of Lower Valley children before he retired from the Alderwood Fire Department in 2001. Attending a circus at the Expo Center in Portland when his two sons were young, Waggoner approached one of the clowns at the circus and identified himself as an amateur clown, asking a few questions. \"I was afraid to let little kids hug me because when they rubbed against me I'd lose half my face,\" Waggoner said. \"He said, you powder don't you?\" said Waggoner. \"I said no, and he threw his head back and laughed and said he'd be out after the show to talk to me.\" That day Waggoner learned the basic techniques professional clowns use to apply make-up (they don't make large smiley faces that engulf the top lip), and tricks of the trade when it come to bringing out the vivid colors and getting them to stay put without running. Now, 30 years later, Waggoner is taking his skills and teaching a new generation of clowns. \"Clowns are all shapes, sizes and colors,\" said Waggoner. \"They're a rainbow of funny faces.\" This winter he started teaching a clowning class for the students of Grandview High School Family, Career and Community Leaders of America (FCCLA) club advisor Joyce Johnson. \"It's an after-school group, so they're there because they want to be, not because they have to be,\" said Waggoner. Johnson contacted Waggoner about teaching the students clowning lessons earlier this year. She said about three years ago she took a clowning class at St. Elizabeth's clowning association. A clown emergency was called and Johnson and her fellow clown students drove through the streets of Yakima to Eschbach Park, painted with brightly colored makeup. \"We helped a company out,\" she recalled. The clowns they had hired didn't show up. Johnson and her fellow clowns spent the day bringing joy to young children and remembering that day, Johnson contacted Waggoner, who has been known in the Lower Valley as the fire safety clown. Johnson approached Waggoner in January about teaching some of her students clowning. The students have taken Waggoner's leadership and found their niche in clowning. Henry Trevino is one of the students in the class and has taken an interest in stilt walking. \"He found a pair of sheet rock stilts at a thrift store and started learning on them,\" said Waggoner. \"They must have been too heavy because he made another pair in wood shop.\" Waggoner said the teen has gotten pretty good at walking on stilts and can even run on them. \"Stilt walkers aren't common. I never learned to walk on stilts,\" he said. \"I tried when I was a kid. I finally learned to juggle.\" Another two of Waggoner's students have mastered balloon twisting, making animals, and all of the students are interested in face painting. Over the weeks, Waggoner has taught the students the basics of make-up, balloons, skits, juggling and costumes, and some of the students are talking about attending the Pacific Northwest Clown Conference this fall. They are also planning to attend a one-day class in May that Waggoner is teaching through Yakima Valley Community College on how to use the clown image to teach fire safety. \"It boggles my mind that high school aged kids have such an interest,\" said Waggoner. But the students at Grandview High School aren't the only ones learning clowning from Waggoner. The youths at his church, the Alderwood Church of God, are also learning skills from Waggoner. He said the church youths have an interest in helping with children's events, skits in church and special projects in the community. Waggoner said what tickled him about teaching the kids from his church's youth group is that once they had the make-up on, they relaxed into clowning. \"Every time one of them would put on a different hat or wig, they'd run over to the mirror to look at themselves,\" said Waggoner. In both of his classes, Waggoner has taught students, \"...you don't have to have expensive stuff to start with. Start small and work up.\" It's common for a clown to change his or her face several times before finding one that fits the personality they have created. And, he said, the personalities of the clowns are sometimes the exact opposite of the person playing the clown. Waggoner said when helping with the Wenatchee Youth Circus one year he met this shy little boy who was a clown in the circus. Once he had his make-up on he was a bubbly, out-going clown, but when the make-up was off he was shy again. For years Waggoner was a white faced clown, which is a common make-up style that paints the entire face white before adding colors to make up the facial features. \"Then I learned I was too much of a roustabout to be a white faced clown, so I went to an Auguste (a style that uses white and colored make-up as well as skin tones),\" said Waggoner. Traditionally, white faced clowns are reserved and are the instigators of antics in clown skits. Auguste clowns follow through with the antics, such as a pie in the face, and the tramp or character clown is usually the clown that is the victim, said Waggoner. Although Waggoner doesn't have any specific memories of clowns as a child, he does remember entertainment at Dairy Days, an event held in his hometown in Iowa. The community brings in slapstick and skit performers, which he still remembers fondly. It's that type of humor that Waggoner uses in his skits for groups and when teaching fire safety. He also has a few slight of hand illusions and gags that he uses and has taught to his clowning students. \"Little kids are so gullible,\" said Waggoner. Johnson said that the skills the students are learning can go beyond community service into a part-time job. In larger cities clowns can earn up to 65 per hour at birthday parties and other events. \"That's not bad for a college job,\" Johnson said. The sky is really the limit on the types of events, skits and clown personalities. \"The only limitation is your imagination,\" said Waggoner. \"Clowning is coming back,\" he added. With lulls in interest, Waggoner said clowning almost died out, but, he said, he has done his best to keep the interest alive. Over the years the attitude of secrecy in clowning has relaxed. Now there are annual clown conferences held both regionally, nationally and internationally. The conferences have seminars on costuming, skits, make-up and birthday parties, helping clowns develop their skills"}
{"Id":"1101163461838","Title":"School board reverses itself, awards bid to Denchel Ford","Author":"John Panni","Time":"3/26/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"It is not the cars the office of Migrant Student Data and Recruitment (MSDR) were originally looking for, but nonetheless, MSDR staff does have something now to drive. The Alderwood School Board cleaned up some confusion at last night's meeting concerning the purchase of a pair of vehicles for MSDR. Alderwood School District serves as the fiscal manager for the MSDR program. At last night's meeting, the school board approved the bid from Alderwood's Tom Denchel Ford to purchase two 2004 Ford Taurus vehicles. MSDR will be leasing the vehicles from the school district. MSDR will pay the school district for all lease associated costs, such as maintenance. The issue goes back to the February school board meeting. At that meeting, school board members approved a request from MSDR Director Lee Campos to purchase a pair of Camrys from Toyota of Yakima. The bids from the Yakima dealership were 20,195 for each vehicle, significantly higher than two other bids received. Tom Denchel Ford submitted in February a bid of 14,212 per car for a 2004 Ford Taurus. At the February meeting, the board also received a bid of 13,429 per car from Harris Ford Inc. in Lynnwood for a Ford Taurus. The board went with the more expensive bid under the understanding it was because the MSDR needed the vehicles immediately. MSDR had received direction from the Office of Superintendent of Public Instruction to purchase vehicles for its staff. Campos explained in February that his staff members were turning in high requests for mileage checks. MSDR staff members have been using their personal vehicles to travel across the state to track the educational progress of migrant students. The day following the February meeting, Alderwood School District Superintendent Dr. Aaron Bones halted the awarding of the bid until he could clarify some issues surrounding the board's decision. Bones was unable to be in attendance at the February meeting because of personal reasons. Under state law, a governing body using taxpayer dollars has to go with the most conservative bid presented to them unless they can properly justify the reason for going with a higher bid. At a special board meeting on March 10, Bones suggested the board reject all bids submitted at the February meeting and readvertise the process. Bones said he felt the bid specifications weren't as specific as they could have been. Bones told the board he wanted the specifications to outline more what the district was looking for. This time around, Alderwood School District Executive Director of Business Dave Plesha suggested the board go with the bid from Tom Denchel Ford. Plesha said Denchel officials told him they could have the vehicles available in the next few days. Plesha said Denchel originally told him it would be up to 45 days before the vehicles could be delivered. The school board actually went with the state bid amount submitted by Harris Ford Inc of 13,773 per Ford Taurus. The catch is that Denchel agreed to match the state bid, which board members approved. The original state bid amount was 11,753 per vehicle before taxes. The amount rose with the addition of fees for daytime running lights and a 60/40 split fold rear seat. Following license and title fees the final bid amount increased to 13,773 per vehicle. Denchel agreed to provide all the items that were included in the state bid. Some of the items that will be featured in the two Taurus cars include side-impact door beams, power front disc and rear drum brakes, air bags, fabric cloth seats, sunglass holder, outside temperature gauge and digital clock, power windows, air conditioning, remote keyless entry with trunk release, cruise control and deluxe AM/FM/Cassette/CD audio with six speakers. Alderwood School Board member Fred Kilian said he was glad to see the district accept the best offer for the vehicles. Kilian said the savings will prove out in the long run for the school district"}
{"Id":"1101163462072","Title":"Elizondo accepted to play in All-state game","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"3/26/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"Alderwood High School senior R.J. Elizondo has been accepted to play in the All-state football game on Saturday, June 26, in Everett. Elizondo is the first Alderwood High School football player to be accepted to play in the All-State game since Jimmy Wells in the mid-1990s. Elizondo was a standout for the Grizzly football team as a running back this past season, leading the Grizzlies to the playoffs. \"It is a great opportunity for him,\" said Alderwood football Coach Mark Marro"}
{"Id":"1101163462307","Title":"Focus students help cancer patient","Author":"Melissa Browning","Time":"3/25/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"MABTON - When Focus High School Principal Stephen Busby received a phone call around 5 p.m. last Friday afternoon he was on his way out of the office for the weekend. But, learning that a former Focus High School student's mother was undergoing cancer treatment in Seattle, he decided helping the woman would be a good project for his students to undertake. This past Monday and Tuesday most of the students of Focus High School raked leaves, swept the driveway, pruned bushes and installed fence posts in a children's play area at the woman's home. Garbage, sticks and weeds were also collected and bagged for removal. Busby said a neighbor of the cancer patient let him know about the treatment the woman was undergoing. \"He has always been a great supporter of our school and his neighbor lady is the mother of one of our former students, Laura Rangel,\" said Busby. \"Out of respect for the family and support, we chose to clean up around her home and give her something to lift her spirits,\" he added. Community service is a big part of education at Focus High School. \"A main part of success taught here is giving back to the system,\" said Busby. His students, who range from seventh through 12 graders, each received a community service award from the Yakima Youth Coalition last year, he said. Staff from five different school districts have been sent to Focus to learn the method of alternative education that has been successful in Mabton, he added"}
{"Id":"1101163462557","Title":"Alderwood church speaker believes Harry Potter books not appropriate reading for children at school or at home","Author":"Melissa Browning","Time":"3/25/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"As a student, Tabitha Sanders was assigned to read one of the Harry Potter books. She refused in protest. Beforehand, she had read half of \"Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire,\" but devout in her faith she refused to read any more of the books because of the deep rooted occult teachings she believes are evident throughout the series. To this day she has not finished any of the books, but rather has read excerpts from the series. She spoke about the books Wednesday night at the Hilltop Church of God in Alderwood. Sanders said the Harry Potter books fall into a specific genre of books known as fantasy. \"When you think about fantasy you think of things that cannot happen in the world around them,\" said Sanders. The Harry Potter books are also known as \"high fantasy\" because they have an element of magic, but they take place in both the real and fantasy world. \"Fantasy books are important to the development of our children,\" said Sanders, adding that it helps develop the child's mind, imagination and ability to think outside of given parameters. But with the Harry Potter series, written in both the real and magical world, it takes the book from true fantasy, said Sanders. The books, which were written by United Kingdom author J.K. Rowling, took the writer from the British welfare system to the ranks of a top-selling multi-millionaire. Sanders said the first three books released in the series made 480 million and an estimated 116 million books are in print. \"It's estimated that half of all children in the United States between ages 6 and 17 have read at least one of the books,\" said Sanders. Since the books have been released, Sanders said they have been integrated into school curriculums. She said it is being used during read aloud times in classrooms and as texts in schools. She added that there are study books and classroom guides that have been made available for teachers. She said the study guides take students into the common language of the occult, including Satanism and witchcraft. Sanders said it is a child's guide to the history of witchcraft. Sanders said that in interviews she read, Rowling admitted to studying witchcraft and mythology when writing her books. Sanders added that about 1/3 of the books are based on occultism. The books tell the story of a young orphan boy, Harry Potter, who is a living in the non-magic world of \"muggles,\" or non-magical humans. He learns of his magical heritage and chooses to attend the magical school \"Hogwarts School of Magic and Wizardry.\" She said muggles are everyone who do not practice witchcraft. \"They're depicted as being mean, dumb, ugly and as living a life that isn't worth living,\" said Sanders. Voldemort is Harry's enemy and the wizard that killed his parents and continues to attempt to kill Harry. Sanders said that in the books Potter lives his life between reality and the fantasy world. She said the name of Voldemort is made of three French words, that when translated means flight of a deadman. Sanders said that there are satanic and occult references throughout the books. One of the ways the occult is evident in the books, according to Sanders, is through symbols. She said that symbols are images that have an inner meaning. \"You think you understand the meaning, but it's so much more,\" said Sanders. In writings by occultists, Sanders found descriptions of \"brain wasting\" or brainwashing. Sanders said there is heavy symbolism on the Harry Potter book covers. Three symbols Sanders pointed out on the cover of \"Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone,\" the first book in the series, are the unicorn, Harry's scar and the Sorcerer's stone. The Sorcerer's stone, or Philosopher's stone, as it was released in the United Kingdom, is the fifth and final stage of the transmutation of the soul to reach or achieve eternal life, as believed by many occultists, said Sanders. She said no one has reached the level of eternal life in occultism. She said once the level is reached the occultists believe they can bring themselves back from the dead. She explained there is a belief amongst occultists that in the fifth stage the person who reaches that level will be their messiah, or the anti-Christ. The scar on Harry's forehead, which is a curse scar, is the result of a spell cast by Voldemort to kill Harry. The spell killed Harry's parents, but only scared Harry. \"There's a belief in witchcraft that if you cast a spell that is stronger than you, it will come back on you,\" said Sanders. She said it is believed the anti-Christ will require people to have the mark of the beast on their hand or forehead, adding that the mark is said to be a curse mark. \"So many of these kids look up to this character as their hero,\" said Sanders, who said kids lining up for the books show up with scars painted on their foreheads in order to mimic Harry. \"Kids are slowly being conditioned to accept the curse mark. They think once they have that curse mark they can do the things Harry does.\" Unicorns are believed by Illuminists to be the symbol of their \"christ,\" said Sanders. In the books unicorns are one of the most powerful ingredients in potions, and powerful wands which are owned by Harry and Voldemort, have unicorn hairs in them. The cover of \"Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets\" has pictures of serpents and Harry grasping the tail feathers of a Phoenix. In the Bible, Satan takes the form of a serpents body, said Sanders. The Phoenix is one of the oldest symbols of the occult and is in the Egyptian Satanic Mysteries, she said. Sanders said that it is believed that there is only one Phoenix and it lived for 500 years. The bird burns up and then rises from the ashes. She said that in the five levels of the transmutations of the soul the Phoenix is the last level. The Phoenix parallels the life of Jesus, said Sanders. The bird makes its nest primarily of frankincense and myrrh, which were both given to Christ at the time of his birth. Myrrh foretold of the coming death of Christ, said Sanders, who added that in stories the Phoenix dies and then rises from the ashes. Sorcery is the attempt to manipulate animals, elements and other aspects of life by using rituals, ceremonies or objects, such as amulets, talismans and charms. Sanders said in witchcraft there are believed to be two different kinds of witchcraft, good and bad. White, green and blue witchcraft is said to be good magic, and red and black magic are bad. Both good and bad mix magical spells using herbs, which are grown in gardens. In the Harry Potter books the young witches and wizards are learning about different kinds of herbs used in their spells. One of the plants used in both the books and in real life witchcraft is theyone, a dangerous and psychedelic drug that was outlawed in the United States in 1915. Another herb used both in witchcraft and in the book is mandrake, which in the book is depicted as a screaming infant that is deadly if students at the school don't wear earmuffs while harvesting. Sanders said mandrake is a poison that was used in ancient times as a narcotic. The root, herb and seed of monkshood is deadly poisonous, but is used in witchcraft in small doses. Combined with wormwood, it is used to create a drug that is known as \"draught of the living dead,\" said Sanders. The combination of herbs slows the heart rate so that a person can appear dead, but isn't. The Exliar of Life is a potion that gives a person the power to life forever. Sanders said it is part of the fifth stage of the transmutation of the soul. She said in the book charms and casting spells are part of everyday life of students at Hogwarts, and the names of the spells and words from them are real, researched by Rowling. \"To achieve these things (casting spells) they use a lot of drugs and herbs in dangerous doses,\" said Sanders. \"They are suffering the effects of the drugs, not actually doing what they think, like flying.\" Sanders said in witchcraft there is a flight spell that uses pig fat and either rat or bat blood and herbs to make a paste. She said a witch will rub the black paste on their face, hands and broomstick and when the person moves it gives them the feeling that they are flying. She added that in the Bible a sorcerer is said to be of the devil. Another aspect of witchcraft in the Harry Potter books is divination or fortune telling, said Sanders. She said fortune telling mediums include tarot cards, tea leaves, astrology, Oujia boards, palmistry, crystal balls, mirrors and other types of crystals. In the books, Sanders said, Harry is called a true seer with the gift of divination powers. The books have reference to \"remember balls,\" said Sanders, which she said are marble sized balls that remind the holder of something they have forgotten. Also in the book is the parseltongue language, which is known to be the language of snakes, and a language Harry knows in the books. \"The occult believe they need to learn parseltongue to be able to speak directly to Satan,\" said Sanders. The books also have reference to the \"Mirror of Erised,\" which is designed to show a person's heart desires, said Sanders. Also evident in the book, said Sanders, is the teaching of dualism, which says there is no such thing as absolute good or absolute evil. \"Occultists believe that there are two equal and opposite sides of the force and that there is good in evil and there is evil in good,\" said Sanders. Anton LaVey, the writer of the Satanic bible, said that no creed must be accepted that there is an authority of a \"divine\" nature, said Sanders. \"Anton LaVey tells us there is nothing sacred about moral code,\" she added. In the Harry Potter books, Harry and his enemy Voldemort aren't that far apart, said Sanders. Both have wands made of the same unicorn hair. Both have the gift of parseltongue and Voldemort gained full strength and, he believes, the power to defeat Harry by drinking a vile of his blood. In I John 1:5, the Bible says there is no evil in good, said Sanders. \"There is not both good and evil wizardry or witchcraft,\" she said. \"The Bible says all wizardry and witchcraft is evil.\" Another teaching in the book, said Sanders, is that of spiritism or necromancy, which is the occult belief, held by witches, wiccans and other occult followers that they can contact the dead. Sanders said throughout the books, Rowling uses ghosts as characters that interact with students. The belief of reincarnation is also taught in the books, said Sanders. Although many religions believe in reincarnation, she said in the occult, it is believed to be a body living a soul-less existence. She said in the \"Harry Potter and Prisoner of Azkaban,\" the book tells of people existing as empty shells, \"...the body is still living but the soul is gone.\" \"The occultists believe your body can continue to live, but you won't know who you are,\" said Sanders. She said that the book has creatures known as dementors that can suck the soul out of a human. \"Witches do believe that there are creatures that can scare their soul out of them,\" she added. \"The standard witchcraft belief is that no one ever dies, they change to another dimension. In that dimension the living can contact the dead,\" said Sanders. In \"Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone,\" Sanders said there is a quote that reads, \"After all to the well organized mind, death is just the next great adventure.\" Sanders encourages parents to be wary of what their children read in school and at home. \"You can request for an alternative book or alternative assignment,\" she said. \"There are lots of great books you can request rather than the Harry Potter books"}
{"Id":"1101163462791","Title":"Congressman tours Iraq, meets with American troops","Author":"Jamie Smart","Time":"3/25/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"IRAQ - While on a five-day trip to see first-hand how American troops are faring in Iraq, Congressman Doc Hastings came face-to-face with a young man whom he had aided in becoming an officer. Hastings had the opportunity to chat with Steve Ayre, formerly of Finley, whom Hastings had given an appointment to attend the U.S. Air Force Academy in 1996. \"He didn't know who he was to be transporting, but he recognized me and took time to re-introduce himself to me,\" Hastings said. \"It just goes to prove that we are living in a small world,\" said Hastings. Hastings was in the Middle East last week to visit with U.S. troops, tour military operations and to see for himself how the Iraqi rebuilding effort is progressing. The 4th District lawmaker said he had the opportunity to meet and share meals with the troops, many of whom have been stationed in Iraq for the past year. \"We arrived in Bagdad in time to mark the first anniversary of start of the war in Iraq,\" Hastings said. \"What impressed me most was the high morale of the troops,\" he said. Hastings, who was among those who voted to fight the war on terrorism, said he felt a personal obligation to see first-hand how the troops were doing. \"I wanted to get a pulse on the situation,\" he said, saying he was pleased with the American troops' attitudes. He said their positive morale has renewed his commitment to provide the troops with whatever they need while stationed overseas. He also met with the commanders of the Combined Joint Task Force and other senior level U.S. officials regarding the current military operations. \"We also met with members of the provisional Iraqi government, who are preparing for a constitutional election June 30,\" Hastings said. He said the Iraqi leaders seemed optimistic they will be able to to govern themselves. \"It's a difficult task they have ahead of them,\" Hastings noted. \"Even though they have lived under a brutal dictatorship for the past quarter of a century, they are optimistic they can make a new government work,\" he said. Hastings said the new Iraqi government has a great potential for making a healthy comeback. \"We noticed an extensive system of canals in the region. I believe if the new government allows its farmers to produce, Iraq could become the bread basket of the Middle East,\" Hastings said. Hastings, who was part of a six-person Congressional delegation to Iraq, also visited Jordan, Kuwait City and the military hospital in Ramstein, Germany, where injured American troops are being treated"}
{"Id":"1101163477338","Title":"Alderwood High student registration begins first of April","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"3/25/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Registration for the 2004-05 school year will begin Thursday, April 1, at Alderwood High School. Registration for the next school year will coincide with parent-teacher conferences to be held April 1 and 2, according to school officials. Registration for seniors, juniors and sophomores will be held in staggered sessions beginning at 7:30 p.m. for the class of 2005. The class of 2006 will register beginning at 9:30 a.m. and the class of 2007 will register from 12:30 to 3 p.m. \"We will be using an arena format, which will allow students to choose the classes, teachers and periods they most prefer,\" according to Dennis Birr, Alderwood High School principal. \"This format allows students to design a school day schedule that best fits their needs,\" he explained. Birr said all staff, administrators and counselors will be available during the registration process to assist students. He said students received pre-registration materials last week to aid them in pre-determining what classes they will be wanting to take next year. The AHS freshman class of 2004-05 will register for high school following spring break (April 5-9) at Harrison Middle School. AHS parent-teacher conferences will be held April 1, from 5 to 8 p.m., and on April 2, from 8 until 11:30 a.m. Parents interested in learning more about the two events may call the high school at 837-2601"}
{"Id":"1101163477635","Title":"Obituaries","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"3/25/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"MARIO G MARIO G. CHAVEZ Mario G. Chavez, 45, of Mabton passed away Tuesday, March 23, 2004, at Yakima Memorial Hospital. Mario was born Sept. 2, 1958 in Mexico, the son of Ramiro and Maria (Gutierrez) Chavez. At the age of 17 he moved to Arizona. In 1975 Mario moved to the Yakima Valley, where he worked for various farmers. He cherished time spent with his children. Mario enjoyed racing, working on cars, watching soccer and gambling. He loved the outdoors, camping, fishing, swimming, bike riding and walking on the beach. Mario is survived by his wife, Angie Alaniz of Mabton; four children, Mario Chavez Jr, Adam Chavez, Mariaisabel Chavez, all of Alderwood, and Michael Anthony Chavez of Mabton; and three step-children, Adam J. Venecia, Jesselle Venecia and Janelle Venecia, all of Mabton. He is also survived by his mother, Maria Gutierrez Barajas of Mexico; eight brothers, Israel of Alderwood, Roberto and Francisco, both of Santa Maria, Calif., Jesus, Octavio, Samuel, Eliodoro and Enrique, all of Mexico; and five sisters, Maria Del Jesus of Santa Maria, Lidia, Maria Elena, Martha and Maria, all of Mexico. He was preceded in death by his father, Ramiro Chavez; and four siblings. Viewing and visitation will be held Thursday, March 25, 2004, from 2 to 8 p.m. with a Rosary to be held at 5 p.m. at Wells Funeral Home, Alderwood. Graveside funeral services will be held Friday, March 26, 2004, at 1 p.m. at Mabton Cemetery, under the direction of Wells Funeral Home, Alderwood. JEANNETTE HUETSON Jeannette (Jean) Marian Huetson, 86, of a Alderwood pioneer family passed away Tuesday, March 23, 2004, at Hillcrest Manor in Alderwood. Jean was born Jan. 4, 1918 in Alderwood, the daughter of Gladys Irena (Woolliscroft) and Harold Leighton Johnson. Jean received her early education at Wendell Phillips School and graduated from Alderwood High School with the class of 1936. Following her graduation Jean attended Ellensburg Beauty School and worked as a beautician for several years. On Feb. 20, 1939 she married Earl Huetson in Prosser. They made their home in Spokane, where their two children were born. A dream of farming brought the Huetson family back to Alderwood, where they purchased a farm on South Emerald Road in 1943. They started a dairy, grew grapes, corn, asparagus and alfalfa. Jean was a long-time member of the Green Valley Women s Club. She enjoyed crafts, gardening, cooking, crocheting and rock hounding. After retirement Earl and Jean enjoyed traveling in their R.V. and spending their winters in Arizona. Her husband, Earl of 61 years passed away in 2000 and Jean had continued to make Alderwood her home until the time of her death. Jean is survived by one daughter, Anita Maas and husband, Stan, of Grandview; one son, Larry Huetson and wife, Hattie, of Alderwood; five grandchildren, Michael Huetson and wife, Donna, Cheryl Newhouse and husband, Will, Dean Maas and wife, Jill, Kevin Maas and Greg Maas; four great grandchildren, Kiefer Huetson, Paul Nieswonger, Jason Maas and Greg Maas; one brother, Harold L. Johnson of Alderwood; and one sister, Barbara Johnson of Alderwood. She is also survived by several nieces and nephews. Jean was preceded in death by her parents; and one sister, Virginia N. Verhulp. Viewing and visitation will be held Sunday, March 28, 2004, from 4 to 8 p.m. and Monday, March 29, 2004, from 8 to 10 a.m. at Wells Funeral Home, Alderwood. Graveside funeral services will be at 11 a.m. at Alderwood Cemetery. Those wishing to honor her memory may contribute to the donor s choice. HAROLD R. KELLY Harold R. Kelly, 74, of Prosser passed away Tuesday, March 23, 2004, at his home in Prosser, surrounded by his family following a short illness. He was born Jan. 17, 1930 in Decatur, Iowa to Everett Ray and Margarita (Adair) Kelly. Harold received his early education in Leon, Iowa, later moving to Washington, making his home on the Satus. In 1947 he enlisted in the U.S. Navy, serving during the Korean War until his honorable discharge in December 1951. On Dec. 30, 1953 he married Edith Gimlin in Mabton. They together made their home in Prosser. Harold worked for Copeland Lumber in Prosser for several years, later working as a timber faller in Glenwood for St. Regis Paper Co. The Kelly family returned to Prosser, where he worked as a line truck operator for Benton Rural Electric until his retirement. Harold was a life member of the Veterans of Foreign War 3207 of Prosser, and was also a member of the Prosser Eagles. Harold enjoyed fishing, hunting and reading. He cherished time spent with his children and grandchildren. He is survived by his wife of 50 years, Edith Marie Kelly of Prosser; two sons, Harold Raymond Kelly Jr. and wife, Denise, of Springfield, Ore. and Jay Kelly and wife, Danica, of Anacortes; three daughters, Debra Cloud and husband, Tom, of Arvada, Colo., Denise Marley and husband, Kelly, of Spokane and Pamela Miller and husband, Sky, of Marysville; 22 grandchildren; and one great-grandson. He is also survived by two brothers, Wayne Kelley of Kellerton, Iowa and Doyle Kelley of Grandview; and three sisters, Dorothy Mae Bunting of Yakima, Leola Milburn of Zillah and Rayetta Browne of Chelan. He was preceded in death by his parents; and one brother, Robert Kelley. Viewing and visitation will be held Friday, March 26, 2004, from 2 to 8 p.m., and Saturday, March 27, 2004, from 9 a.m. until 1:30 p.m. at Wells Funeral Home, Alderwood, with burial to follow at Lower Valley Memorial Gardens, Alderwood, under the direction of Wells Funeral Home. Those wishing to honor Harold s memory may contribute to the International Myeloma Foundation, c/o 12650 Riverside Dr., Suite 206, North Hollywood, CA 91607"}
{"Id":"1101163477932","Title":"Calendar","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"3/24/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"4-calendar rev. updated 3/24/04 calendar Mondays Alderwood City Council meets Mondays at 7 p.m. at the Alderwood Law and Justice Center, Homer Street. Mondays Al-Anon meetings are held Mondays 7 to 8 p.m. at Alderwood Community Hospital in the main lobby. MONDAYS Alderwood TOPS (Take Off Pounds Sensibly) Chapter meets 6:30 to 7:30 p.m. at Alderwood Senior Citizen Center, 1400 Federal Way. Call 839-4992 for details. Mondays Alderwood Noon Rotary meets at noon at Snipes Mountain Brewery and Restaurant, Yakima Valley Highway. second mondays The Caregiver Support Group, sponsored by Aging and Long Term Care of Southeast Washington, meets at 2 p.m. in room 7 of the St. Joseph Parish Center, 907 S. Sixth St. in Alderwood. For more information about the group call 837-2243 or 837-4436. Third Mondays Lower Valley Christian Women meet at The Barn Restaurant, Wine Country Road, Prosser, at 11:30 a.m. Call 894-4610 for information. Tuesdays An eight-week session on grief support, sponsored by the St. Joseph Grief and Bereavement Committee, is currently taking place every Tuesday evening from 6 to 7:30 p.m. in the Reinhold Memorial Library at the St. Joseph Parish Center, 907 S. Sixth St. in Alderwood. The two-month session began Feb. 17, but each meeting, which addresses both educationnal and support issues, is open for anyone to attend. For more information about the sessions call 837-2243. Tuesdays KOSMOS - over 50 singles group meets 6 to 8 p.m. For meeting place call Carol Cronin at 836-2921 or Bob Van Horn at 837-8485. Tuesdays Compassionate Connection Support Group meets at 3 p.m. at Sunny Spot Restaurant, Yakima Valley Highway. Call 837-2339 or 837-5406 for more information. Tuesdays Community Service Food Bank, at the Seventh-day Adventist Church, East Lincoln Avenue. Winter hours are 9 to 11:30 a.m. first Tuesday House committee of the VFW Sunny View Post #3482 meets at 6 p.m. at the post home, 615 North Ave. Second Tuesday Horizon Quilters Unlimited of Yakima Valley meets at 9:30 a.m. through noon at Immanuel Lutheran Church, 300 S. Euclid and 3rd, Grandview. For more information call 837-7069. Second Tuesday VFW Sunny View Post #3482 and Ladies Auxiliary meet at 7 p.m. at the post home, 615 North Ave. Second and fourth Tuesday Mabton Food Bank open from 10 a.m. to noon for pick-up or donations of food items at Mabton V.F.W. Hall across from Mabton High School. Call 894-4273 to arrange donations. Third Tuesdays American Veterans Post #95 meets at 132 Division, Grandview, at 7 p.m. Call 882-1058 for more information. Fourth Tuesdays The Alderwood Masonic Lodge No. 138, F.&A.M., meets at 7:30 p.m. Call Bill Flower, 837-3505 for details. Fourth Tuesdays Alderwood Garden Club meets at 1:00 p.m. Call 837-4138 for location. Wednesdays Alderwood Daybreak Rotary meets at 6:45 a.m. at Alderwood Community Hospital. Wednesdays Moms in Touch International, a non-denominational group that prays for children and schools, Call 837-3459 for day and location. First andthird Wednesdays Alderwood Chapter #134 Order of Eastern Star, meets at 8 p.m. at the Masonic Temple, Sixth and Harrison. Second Wednesdays Harrison Middle School Booster Club meets at 7:15 p.m. at the middle school library. Second Wednesdays Mabton VFW Post #10384 Barnard R. Christiansen Post meets at 7:30 p.m. at the Mabton post home, B. Street. Second andfourth Wednesdays Golden Agers potluck dinners and meetings at noon at the Alderwood Senior Citizen Center, 1400 Federal Way. Call 837-5572 for details. All persons age 55 and older are welcome. Second Wednesday Credit Professionals International meets every second and fourth Wednesday at 7 a.m. at Alderwood Community Hospital. Call Joyce Wells, 882-2248 for details. second Wednesdays Yakima Regional Clean Air Authority meets the second Wednesday of every month at 1:30 p.m. in room B33 at the Yakima County Courthouse. Fourth Wednesdays AmVets Post #3733 meets at SunnyView VFW Post #3482, 615 North Avenue. 7 p.m. thursdays Alderwood Kiwanis Club meets at 6:45 a.m. at El Mejor Taquito, .544 S. 6th Street. Meetings are open to the public. Thursdays Cribbage Club meets every Thursday at 7 p.m. at the Eagles Lodge, South Hill Road. For more information, contact Linda Johnson, 837-5636. Thursdays TOPS #Wa. 1232 Grandview meets at 8 a.m. through 10 a.m. at Immanuel Lutheran Church, 300 S. Euclid, Grandview. Call 882-5525 for more information. Second Thursdays The Lower Valley Fibromyalgia Support Group, a Lower Valley Hospice Education Outreach Program, meets at Alderwood United Methodist Church, Ninth Street and E. Edison Avenue, 6-7:30 p.m., Edison Avenue entrance. Call 837-4818 for details. Second Thursdays Grandview VFW Post #6929 meets at 7 p.m. at the post home, 132 Division St., Grandview. SECOND THURSDAY Alderwood Ministerial Association meets second Thursdays of each month. For more information call 837-2734. (not meeting in June, July, or August or the first Thursday of April.) Second and fourth Thursdays Regular meeting dates for the Alderwood Lions Clubs. Meetings are held at Alderwood Library 6:30 p.m. Call 839-2574 for membership information. Fourth Thursdays Alderwood School Board meets the last Thursday of each month at 7 p.m. at the Denny Blaine Building, Custer Avenue. Lower Valley Bridge Club Meets Thursdays at 10:30 a.m., and Mondays at 7:30 p.m. at Alderwood Banner Bank, East Edison Avenue. Last Thursday Lower Valley Diabetic Support Group, at Alderwood Community Health and Information Center, Ninth Street and Franklin Avenue, 7 p.m. No charge for attending. Call 837-1624 for details. Second Fridays Sunny Valley Grange #870 meets at 8 p.m. at the grange hall, Factory Road. A potluck and social is held on the fourth Friday of each month at 6:30 p.m. Fridays Consumer Credit Counseling every Friday in Alderwood at Banner Bank of Washington. Call 1-800-273-6897 for an appointment. Wednesdays Lower Valley Toastmasters meets at 6:30 a.m. at the Alderwood Community Hospital administrative conference room. Call Bac Nguyen at 882-6120 for more information. FRIDAYS Adolescent pregnancy and parenting program in Alderwood at Planned Parenthood office. Call 837-5005 for more information. mondays and wednesdays and fridays Ministerial Food Bank at 8:30-11:30 a.m. at 8th and Decater in Alderwood. Call 837-6754 for details"}
{"Id":"1101163478229","Title":"Forum","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"3/24/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"1-Column DSN doinga super job I really enjoy the Alderwood Daily News. I look forward to each weekday afternoon when my lovely paper girl puts my paper in my screen door handle so I don't have to stoop over to pick it up off my porch. It's not easy to bend over any more. I enjoy the insert each Friday (American Profile) with a new recipe and interesting reading about various subjects. I'm informed about things that happen in and about our Valley, good and bad. Thank you Alderwood Daily News and all the ones who make it possible. Only one fault, though. Wish the crossword puzzle was a little easier. All of you are doing a super job! /s/ Bernice Seward, Alderwood Support appreciated To all who attended the Young Life brunch last Saturday, the Young Life Committee would like to thank the community for its support of our recent brunch. Good food and good friends provided an inviting atmosphere for everyone and we were blessed by your attendance. Special thanks are gratefully extended to Navarro's Community Center for its spacious and comfortable facility, Dennis and Ayner Browning and crew from Prudential Valley Investment Properties for cooking up a storm, the numerous table hosts who filled our tables with family and friends, Sara Cromwell for singing so beautifully and inspiring us all, students speakers Warren Clark, Luke Spilles and Martha Flores for sharing their testimonies, Tina Bosma and crew for gathering awesome silent auction items and Carol Van Slageren for the star-studded decorations. See you all next year! /s/ Linda Hughes, Lower Valley Young Life Committee"}
{"Id":"1101163478463","Title":"Mabton police to increase neighborhood patrols","Author":"Jamie Smart","Time":"3/24/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"MABTON - The Mabton Police Department will be stepping up its neighborhood patrols in the coming weeks, following a citizen's complaint about inconsiderate motorists. Mabton Police Chief Raul Almeida made the announcement during Tuesday night's Mabton City Council meeting, after a North Mabton resident reported her concerns about illegal parking in her neighborhood to the Council. Norma Acosta said the motorists in her neighborhood have destroyed alley side fences, while blocking the alley way near a busy apartment building. Almeida said while citations could only be given if people were trespassing, his officers would be talking with the residents in the area. Acosta said she was worried that someone might be injured in the area. She said the motorists all seem to park under her tree, which borders the alley way near the Mabton Gardens apartment building. \"They just refuse to move,\" she told the Council. Acosta said the motorists have repeatedly damaged her property and that of her neighbors in the area. Acosta was advised to put up \"no trespassing\" signs to enable the police officers to cite the offending motorists. Almeida said his officers traditionally increase their patrols of neighborhoods in the spring as more people starting staying outside during the longer spring and summer evenings. He said the officers' presence would aid in deterring misdemeanors and other illegal activities. In addition to increased police patrols, Mabton residents will soon see the return of the city animal control officer. The Council announced its intention to reinstate animal control services beginning the first of April. During the past few weeks, city hall has received an increased number of animal complaints from residents. \"Dogs are not such an issue in the winter,\" Mayor David Contradt said. \"But each spring it appears as though our dog population explodes,\" he added"}
{"Id":"1101163478729","Title":"Spady family epitomizes America's citizen activists","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"3/24/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"It's always great to see the underdog win one! That's what happened this year in Olympia when Gov. Locke signed a new law allowing 45 charter schools to be established in Washington state. In this case, the underdogs are Jim and Fawn Spady, who almost single-handedly held the charter schools movement together for a decade. They poured their own money, countless days and hearts into a movement that would not even benefit their own two children. The Spady family has a long tradition of philanthropy. Jim's father, Dick, started Dick's Drive-In, a chain of five hamburger stands in central and north Seattle, 50 years ago. It has been a very successful family-owned business that pays good wages, provides excellent benefits and gives scholarships for its workers to continue their education. In addition, Dick's Drive-In supports a wide variety of charitable causes in their community and encourages customers to contribute as well through their \"Change for Charities\" program. Despite two unsuccessful charter school initiatives and years of legislative roadblocks, Jim and Fawn Spady's tenacity paid off. Now, underserved children whose parents cannot afford to send them to a private school have an alternative. Charter schools have succeeded in 40 other states, and if they succeed here, the real winners will be our children. If successful in Washington (and with the Spady's persistence they will be) charter schools should be allowed to expand into every community in the state. After all, charter schools help realize our societal goal of graduating students who can compete head-to-head with their counterparts around the world. As Gov. Locke has so often said, education is the great equalizer, and charter schools are one way to level the playing field for those who are not being served in the public school system. Jim and Fawn Spady could have easily sat back, bought a beach home and spent their weekends watching the tides roll in and out. Instead, they dedicated a major portion of their lives to something that will benefit countless children throughout the state. Regardless of your politics, you must agree that it is people like Jim and Fawn Spady who have made the American dream come true. Don. C. Brunell is President of the Association of Washington Business"}
{"Id":"1101163478963","Title":"Local Perry Tech grads secure jobs while still in school","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"3/23/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"Before graduation at least three of six Alderwood area graduates from Perry Technical Institute in Yakima had secured jobs. Tristan Kelley, a recent graduate of the telecommunication technology program, is now working for Lockheed Martin in the Tri-Cities; Lorenzo Sabedra Jr., a recent graduate of the electrical technology program, is now working for Berg Electric in California; and Marcus Rasmusson, a recent graduate of the electrical technology program, is now working at Shields Bags and Printing in Yakima. All three of the former students, who graduated on Feb. 26, said Perry Tech helped get them ready for the jobs they are currently doing. Kelley said through the telecommunication technology program he learned about everything from the phone industry to the internet and low voltage wiring. \"It gives you a good basis for the whole field,\" Kelley said of Perry Tech. Kelley is currently using his education at Lockheed Martin in the Tri-Cities, working on everything from running computer networks to setting up and running different simulator programs. Sabedra said his education at Perry Tech helped introduce him to a variety of different things in the field of electrical technology. He said he learned about everything from the National Electric Code to using a computer to controling a plant's electrical system. Now that he is working for Berg Electric in California, Sabedra said he is using what he learned at Perry Tech. \"So far it's been great,\" Sabedra said of his new job, which he secured while he was still a student at Perry Tech. Rasmusson said Perry Tech showed him how to do a little bit of everything. \"They just give you a foot in the door,\" he said. Rasmusson currently works as a maintenance electrician at Shields Bags and Printing, a job he secured three weeks before graduation. And Rasmusson isn't the first electrician in his family, he said his grandfather was an electrician, as well as several other family members. Rasmusson, Sabedra and Kelley weren't the only recent graduates of Perry Tech. Delfino R. Campos of Grandview and Martin Cervantes Jr. of Mabton both graduated from the electrical technology program, and Javier Martinez of Alderwood graduated from the telecommunication technology program"}
{"Id":"1101163482416","Title":"Grizzly boys coach encouraged by early season marks","Author":"John Panni","Time":"3/22/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"YAKIMA - Alderwood High School boys track and field Coach Wally Shearer is rather optimistic about the season following this past Saturday's Cadet Invitational. The Cadet invite is a non-scoring affair hosted by Eisenhower High School. The meet featured such schools as Wapato, Moses Lake, Thorp, Bickleton and Kittitas. Shearer said he has 40 boys out for track this spring, 10 more than he had last year, and many of them are participating in the sport for the first time. Shearer said his first time participants showed good marks this past Saturday while his returners are right on target from where they were last year. \"We did well,\" said Shearer. \"It is still early. We have good numbers this year. They are a great bunch of guys to work with.\" The top mark on Saturday for the Alderwood boys went to Joe Schwartz. Schwartz took first in the shotput with throw of 44-9-1/2. Shearer said what made Saturday's mark for Schwartz even more notable is that he is nursing an injured shoulder. \"That is a great mark to start out the year with,\" said Shearer. Luke Schilperoort had a third place finish in the 100-meter dash with a time of 11.8 seconds. Schwartz was fifth in the event with a clocking of 12 seconds flat while Lester Wells took sixth with a time of 12.2. Matt Arevalo was seventh with a time of 12.4 seconds. Shearer was also impressed with Michael Graham, who nearly hit the marks he had at the end of last season. Graham took fourth in the 110-meter high hurdles with a time of 18.2 seconds. Graham was also fifth in the 300-meter intermediate hurdles, 47.7 seconds. Graham also took seventh in the javelin with a throw of 123-10. Exchange student Branimir Janjev was another athlete on Saturday that caught Shearer's attention. Janjev took fourth in the triple jump, clearing 26-3. He was also fifth in the long jump with a distance of 16-11. Jeff Davis also did well in the triple jump, taking sixth with a mark of 36-1-1/4. Shearer said Davis didn't even break a sweat hitting that mark. Davis was also fifth in the 800-meter dash with a time of 2:09.5. Also placing in the long jump for Alderwood was Jaime Sambrano, who placed sixth with a mark of 16-6-1/2. Cody Heckert was seventh, clearing 16-6. Heckert also had a top 10 finish in the 800, placing ninth with a time of 2:15.1. Casey Wells led Alderwood in the discus with a throw of 97-7, placing fourth. Jason Aguirre placed fifth with a throw of 91-3. Hunter Van de Graaf took sixth in the discus, 86-11. Mitch Lathen was eighth for the Grizzlies with a mark of 78-6. Brendan Scott grabbed seventh in the pole vault, elevating 9-6. Nick Howat took seventh in the 200-meter dash with a clocking of 26.2 seconds. Alderwood's 4-X400-meter relay team of Heckert, Scott, Wells and Davis took third with a time of 3:43.4. The Grizzlies 4X100-meter relay team of Sarmiento, Arevalo, Nick Palomarez and Rudy Martinez was fourth with a clocking of 49.9 seconds. Alderwood travels to Hanford this Friday. . John Panni can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or email him at mPanni@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101163497088","Title":"Valley chambers plan spring festival","Author":"Jamie Smart","Time":"3/19/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Thousands of tourists flood the Yakima Valley each April to sample the early release of Yakima Valley wines during the Valley wine industry's annual Spring Barrel Tasting weekend. This year, in order to lengthen the stay of visitors to the Yakima Valley, Lower Valley Chambers of Commerce are marketing a series of activities designed to capture the attention of the wine enthusiasts. \"We hope to encourage tourists to come to the Valley a day early and stay a day longer,\" explained Kathy Corliss, tourism and promotions director of the Alderwood Chamber. As an encitement, the Valley Chambers have named April 16 through 25 as the Yakima Valley Spring Fling Festival, complete with a list of special events. The activities are designed to whet the curiosity of the influx of tourists and the local residents as well, Corliss explained. \"We know thousands of tourists come into the Valley the last week of April, and most stay the entire three days of the barrel tasting event at local wineries,\" she explained. \"We want them to stay longer,\" she said. Corliss said the Valley Chambers are taking a page out of tourism plans designed by the communities in Skagit Valley, which for years have hosted month-long Daffodil and Tulip festivals each spring, events which generates millions of dollars in tourism revenues. \"It's astounding the amount of money the Skagit Valley event generates, estimated to be in the area of 16 million annually,\" she said. \"There is no reason we can't do something similar here,\" she said. \"We already know the tourists are coming to sample our wines,\" she said. \"What we propose to do is give them something extra to make their stay in the Valley more memorable,\" she explained. Corliss said communities that normally don't gear up for tourists until summer will be marketing activities, beginning April 17 as part of the pre-barrel tasting schedule of events. She said events will continue through the barrel tasting weekend. For example, the Granger community will dust off the paddle boats in Dino Park on April 17 and 24, for those interested in early spring water recreation. The Toppenish Mural Society will hitch up the horses to the mural tour wagons for tours of that city's vast collection of historical murals beginning April 19. The Alderwood Chamber of Commerce will be hosting a Spring Fling Golf Tournament at Black Rock Creek Golf Course on April 22, said Corliss. In addition, the Alderwood Chamber will sponsor an asparagus extravaganza, to be held at the Black Rock Creek clubhouse. Yakama Legends Casino will feature the \"Godfather of Rock and Rock,\" James Brown, in concert on April 18, at the Toppenish casino. In addition, the Toppenish Chamber is also involved in a salmon and buffalo feed at Legends on April 23, Corliss said. The Zillah Chamber of Commerce will be hosting a warehouse auction and wine tasting on April 21, and a spring flea market on April 24. \"We've created a special web site (www.springflingfest.com) listing the Spring Fling schedule of events to help visitors arrange their travel itinerary,\" she added. \"We realize it may take a while to get this event off the ground, but we're already planning events for next spring,\" she add. Among the festivities to be added to the 2005 festival may be a bike ride from Prosser to Columbia Crest, and perhaps a shorter bike ride from Granger to Alderwood's Dairy Fair on the backroads, Corliss suggested. \"Part of the idea for the festival is to create events not linked to the wine industry but which do involve families,\" Corliss said. \"This year's event is just a beginning,\" Corliss said. For more information about the spring fling call the Alderwood Chamber at 837-5939"}
{"Id":"1101163497416","Title":"Entertainment Briefs","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"3/19/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"1-Column Bowker guestof Heritage College all next week TOPPENISH - Ann Bowker, a renowned fiber artist and painter, will serve as the Heritage College artist-in-residence next week. As part of her residency, Bowker will juror the second annual Regional High School Art Exhibit that runs March 22 through April 1 at Heritage College. Art teachers at high schools from Naches to Prosser have been invited to submit up to five entries of student art. Bowker's art will be on display along with the student art. The show will be in the Helen Jewett Student Center on the Toppenish main campus. Artwork will be open for public viewing Monday through Friday from 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. Bowker's art has won numerous awards in painting, jewelry and fiber art. Her work is frequently selected for juried exhibitions nationally and internationally. A public reception to honor the high school artists and Bowker will be held Wednesday, March 24, from 6:30 to 8 p.m. in the Helen Jewett Student Center. Bowker will present a lecture on her work at 7 p.m. that evening. Toppenish Eagles lodge oyster feed this Saturday night TOPPENISH - Fraternal Order of Eagles members and their guests are invited to an all-you-can-eat oyster feed this Saturday night, March 20. Tickets for the 7 p.m. meal, priced at 12, are available by calling the lodge at (509) 865-2229. The Toppenish lodge will also be serving a prime rib dinner that night, at a cost of 15. Dinner showto feature hypnotist TOPPENISH - Renowned hypnotist Robert Mac will be the featured attraction at a dinner show to be staged at the Toppenish Fraternal Order of Eagles lodge. Mac's comedy routine has delighted audiences for years. The Saturday, March 27, show will feature a steak dinner at 6 p.m., with Mac to perform at 8 p.m. Dancing to live country western music will follow. Tickets are available by calling the Toppenish Eagles lodge at (509) 865-2229. Garden Expoon tap in early May SPOKANE - The fifth annual Garden Expo, a community service project sponsored by the Inland Empire Gardeners, will be held Saturday, May 8, at Spokane Community College's Lair Student Union Building. The one-day, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. event is free and open to the public. More than 200 vendors will be on hand selling plants, gardening products, services and arts and crafts projects. Local gardening organizations will also be represented at the show. There will also be seminars and show-me-how demonstrations. In conjunction with the show, the Spokane Community College cafeteria will be open that day for food service, and the college is offering free parking. Tattoo art is focusof Yakima exhibition YAKIMA - The rise of tattoos in American culture has placed the tattooist in the category of fine artist. In celebration of that distinction, the Allied Arts Council of Yakima Valley will host an exhibition of tattoo art, \"Tattoo: Past and Present,\" March 19 through April 9, at the Yakima Allied Arts Center, 5000 W. Lincoln Ave. Former Alderwoodrs Jim and Jenni Rosal will be featured artists at an opening reception tonight (March 19) from 6 to 8 p.m. The Rosals, who own \"Jim and Jenni's Quality Tattoo\" of Yakima, were instrumental in putting together the unusual gallery presentation, according to Elliot Challandes of the Yakima Allied Arts Council. \"The tattoo display celebrates the tattooist's personal style used to create unique body art,\" said Challandes. Included in the exhibition will be original tattoo art in ink, pencil, watercolor and mixed media. Works by both contemporary and vintage artists will be also be a part of the display, along with tattooing equipment from America, Japan, and the South Pacific. Zillah student actors to present Wizard of Oz this weekend Zillah - The Z Center Stage Theater Company of Zillah High School will present \"The Wizard of Oz\" Friday and Saturday, March 19 and 20, at 7 p.m. at the high school auditorium. Additional performances will be offered March 25, 26 and 27. Tickets are 5 for general admission. Directed by Lynn Brant, the musical features a cast of 35 student actors. Holly Lacell plays Dorothy in the high school drama presentation with Natalia York as her dog, Toto. The parts of the Scarecrow, Tinman and the Cowardly Lion will be handled by Erich Sauerwein, Tim Baker and Eric Porter, respectively. Larson Galleryto host 32nd annual photography exhibit YAKIMA - The 32nd annual National Photography Exhibition, a juried competition, will be held at Larson Gallery on the Yakima campus of Yakima Valley Community College, from April 4 through May 1. The exhibition, founded by Herb Blisard, a photography instructor at Yakima Valley Community College, will open with a reception on April 4 from 2 to 5 p.m. in the gallery, 16th Street and Nob Hill Avenue, and will run through May 1. This year's juried competition received submissions from 25 states for a record high of 530 photographs entered, 121 were accepted. A total of 3,200 in cash awards, including 350 for Best of Show, has been awarded to 18 photographers. Awards will be announced during the opening reception. As part of the exhibition, contest juror Marita Holdaway, the owner and director of Benham Gallery in Seattle, will present a free public lecture, \"Finding a Place for Your Art - How to be Seen and Get Sold,\" on Friday, April 2. Her lecture will begin at 7 p.m., in Anthon Hall room 102, on the Yakima YVCC campus. Larson Gallery hours are Tuesday through Saturday, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. For more information contact (509) 574-4875. Dance-art dialogue exhibit opens March 20 at Seattle gallery Seattle - The famed Trisha Brown Dance Company of New York will present an exhibition of dance and art at the Henry Art Gallery in Seattle through July 18. The exhibition, \"Dance and Art in Dialogue,\" will open Saturday, March 20. \"Dance and Art in Dialogue\" is a living exhibition that will include events staged in and near the museum in the form of indoor and outdoor performances, workshops and lecture demonstrations given by Brown and members of her company. Admission to the dance performances is 8 for adults. Admission is free to high school and college students with identification and for children 13 and under. The gallery, located on the campus of the University of Washington, is open 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. Tuesday, Wednesday, Friday, Saturday and Sunday, and from 11 to 8 p.m. on Thursdays. For more information about the dance exhibit and other exhibits call (206) 543-2280 or visit the museum web site at www.henryart.org"}
{"Id":"1101163497666","Title":"Drug sniffing canine demonstrates talents for students","Author":"Jamie Smart","Time":"3/19/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"His clear, blue eyes watch every move the man makes as he crosses back and forth across the room. It's not that he is particularly interested in the man. He is, however, interested in the round, green object the man has concealed in his right hand. Nick might be getting older, but there is still plenty of spark left in his heavy set frame. Even though he is nearing retirement from his job, Nick, a blue Australian Shepherd, is always eager to play ball with his handler Joe Glossen. Glossen and Nick work for the Yakima County LEAD Task Force, an agency charged with stopping drug traffic in the Yakima Valley. The pair took part in a classroom demonstration held at Alderwood's Harrison Middle School Thursday during Drug and Alcohol Awareness Week. Glossen and Nick demonstrated how the partners search for drugs, which as far as Nick is concerned, the drugs are just an excuse for him to get to play ball. \"It's his reward, Glossen explained \"We use the ball as part of his training,\" Glossen said. \"Nick is ball obsessive. He'll look for anything as long as he gets to play ball,\" he said. Sniffing out the drugs is a game for him, according to Glossen. It's a game Nick is very good at. But the friendly dog is getting older and will soon be allowed to play ball as much as he wants too, said Glossen. Glossen said Nick has worked sniffing out drugs for the past five years. \"We are already training a new dog to take over Nick's job,\" Glossen said. Glossen said a dog like Nick undergoes more than 240 training hours learning to search out illegal drugs, such as marijuana, cocaine, heroin and meth. \"He is usually pretty mellow, \" said Glossen. \"Until it's time to go to work, then he is all business,\" he added. Glossen said about any kind of dog can be trained to search out drugs. He said a dog chosen for the specialized work must have the ability to follow directions and as in Nick's case, be just a little obsessive about playing ball. During the course of his career Nick has searched out drugs in homes, cars and one time he found drugs on a person's body, Glossen said. But now that Nick is getting to be well past age 10, it's harder for him to get up on counters or tables where he may need to search out the contraband. \"I think Nick is looking forward to relaxing around the house and playing ball with my little boy,\" Glossen said. \"He'll finally get to have a few more treats too,\" he added"}
{"Id":"1101163498744","Title":"State education legislation gets mixed reviews","Author":"Melissa Browning","Time":"3/19/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"State Superintendent of Public Instruction Terry Bergeson is calling the 2004 legislation \"...a major win on behalf of Washington students.\" One key piece of legislation, HB 2195, will be especially beneficial to Lower Valley students, according to Mabton Superintendent of Public Schools Kevin Chase and Ruben Carrera, executive director of school and community resources for the Alderwood School District. The legislation allows student to have at least four opportunities to retake portions of the Washington Assessment of Student Learning (WASL) by the time new graduation requirements take effect for the class of 2008. \"Retakes for the WASL is going to be helpful for many of the youngsters here in Alderwood,\" said Carrera. He added that a recent federal decision makes it so that students who don't have English as their primary language and aren't enrolled in school continuously don't have to take the WASL. Carrera said they will be encouraged to take the state test, but their scores will not count against the schools. Chase added that allowing students to take the WASL more than once is \"a good thing.\" The Office of the Superintendent of Public Instruction is also authorized to more ahead with plans to design an additional assessment option for students who have the necessary skills, but experience difficulty demonstrating those abilities on the WASL. Also approved by the legislature was SB 6311, which will allow districts to set their levy base using the amount they would have collected if I-728 and 732 had been fully funded. Touted as a financial boost to many school districts, Chase said the legislation won't help students in the Lower Valley at all. \"We never ask for the full amount we can levy,\" said Chase, adding that most schools in the Lower Valley don't ask for full levy funding. \"The only people that are going to benefit are those in rich districts like Bellevue and Mercer Island, where people live who can afford the full levy,\" said Chase. Carrera agreed that the levy changes wouldn't help small, impoverished districts. Chase added that there was an effort to do away with levy equalization, which allows small districts to receive the same amount of money as larger districts. He said there has already been an effort to cut funding to schools. Last year about 7 percent was cut, and it was not reinstated this year. \"We don't know the full fiscal effects of the new legislation,\" said Chase. Also part of the legislature were policy bills that are expected to enhance the overall health and safety of students. The bills deal with preventing and resolving sexual misconduct cases, enhancing physical activity and improving student nutrition. There will also be increased access to school meals for low-income students and helping prevent child abduction. Changes were also made to the state's Learning Assistance Program (LAP). LAP funds can be used for programs for 11th grade students and starting in 2008 they can be used for 12th grade students under the new rules. \"They used to limit the grades that could be served by the LAP,\" said Chase. He is unsure of how the expansion will affect school budgets. Also approved, after a decade of failed attempts, was the authorization of 15 new charter schools over the next three years and 45 over the next six years. \"This issue has been very contentious among education, legislators and our community for years, with both sides raising legitimate concerns and feelings,\" said Bergeson. \"But now that this legislation has passed, we will do the very best we can to make this a positive opportunity for the benefit of students and their families.\" \"Charter schools, I think are a bad deal,\" said Chase. \"They're creating a class and school with less regulations under the idea that with less regulations students should do better. Then why don't they give us less regulation?\" Chase said the 67 million the state expects to spend for charter schools would go a long to helping students with such things as driver's education. \"What I wish they would have passed is low income driver's education funding,\" said Chase. \"Our Valley's going to have a lot of teens out there driving without licenses.\" He added that changing the vote on school issues to a simple majority, rather than the 60 percent currently required, would have also been beneficial to schools"}
{"Id":"1101163502400","Title":"Smart Beat","Author":"Jamie Smart","Time":"3/19/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"I wasn't looking forward to this weekend until I saw a high wind warning flash across the bottom of my television the other night. \"High winds! You know what that means?,\" I said to myself. Thanks to the March lion-like winds we're bound to have, I'm not going to have to deal with as many leaves as I thought I was. The leaves are moving briskly down the street. If the wind keeps up, I'll be forced to stay inside and play. \"Oh bummer!\" Secretly, it's a prospect to which I'm looking forward. I really didn't want to spend all day outside wrestling with heavy black bags of moldy old leaves or tying up piles of fallen limbs all weekend. What I really want to do is spend time playing with the grandchildren. It's not that they aren't pretty good about helping me with my yard work. But, like me, it's not their favorite thing to do. They'd rather play dress up, drawing pictures, build things or just watching movies together. I'd rather do that as well. I've always told my three grandchildren that my house is a playhouse, where I can use my imagination to be or do whatever I please. They must believe me, because when they come over, each room becomes some new and mysterious place. The family room turns into a construction site for Sammy's Legos sculptures. The living room becomes a theater for the more mature Veronica, who prefers to catch up on her favorite shows on cable television. Lizzy always seems to disappear into my bedroom, where boxes of costume jewelry command her undivided attention for hours at a time. My shoes and several boxes of fabrics from long forgotten projects become her gowns as she transforms my room into her own fantasy world. Those three never wander up to me to tell me they are bored. After all, there is still all that yard work we could be doing. They'll tell me they are hungry. Now that they are older, often they just get into the refrigerator looking for carrots or whatever they can find to snack on. Sometimes Veronica will volunteer to make her yummy chocolate chip cookies. We all try to get her to do that when possible. She doesn't let her cookies get burnt like mine do. I've been thinking about taking a few days off during their spring break to do more things with them, like take in a museum, just so we can have some new memories of being together. I'm a great fan of creating opportunities to expand one's imagination. If we learn something new along the way, that is just gravy, an extra we can save for another day. But if we are forced to go outside, I know we'll make that fun, in spite of the hard work. After all, Sammy loves to dig in the dirt. He likes to help me cut up twigs when he isn't chasing my dog around the yard. Lizzy likes to search for old marbles, insects and the occasional mushroom growing under the leaves. Veronica would still prefer to be watching television, but she's a great help when it comes to pruning the roses. It's all great fun, anyway you look at it. They keep me energized and I let them use their imaginations. I think it's a great way to spend a blustery spring day. I just hope the wind keeps blowing my leaves further down the street. I've now got other plans for my day off"}
{"Id":"1101163503619","Title":"Alderwood's Stacey Gorski earns trip to International Science Fair in May","Author":"Jamie Smart","Time":"3/18/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"KENNEWICK - Alderwood High School senior Stacey Gorski has earned a trip to the International Science and Engineering Fair to be held in Portland, Ore. in May. The young scientist earned the right to represent her high school at the international event by claiming grand championship honors at the 49th annual Mid Columbia Science and Engineering Fair held this past weekend in Kennewick. In addition to earning regional championship honors, the petite blonde also claimed a number of special awards offered by the many science-related associations affiliated with the regional competition. Gorski claimed the American Nuclear Society's first place award, a U.S. Air Force Certificate of Achievement, a U.S. Navy/U.S. Marine Corps Naval science award, and a USDA Agricultural Research Service and Washington State Potato Foundation 12th grade certificate of merit. Also, Gorski earned the Intel Outstanding Achievement in Environmental Science certificate, the International Council on System Engineering Outstanding Systems Approach recognition and the Tri Cities' Sigma Xi chapter's Excellence in Use of Scientific Method award. Also earning top honors at the regional science fair was Kacee Jo Bootsma of Alderwood, one of last year's regional fair grand champions. Bootsma took second place honors in the senior division at regionals. In addition, she collected first place honors from Whitman Institute of Neuroscience, as well as a U.S. Air Force Certificate of Achievement. Bootsma was also named the most outstanding 11th grade exhibitor in computer science, engineering, physics or chemistry by the Yale Science and Engineering Association. For the second year in row she was named the Stockholm Junior Water Prize winner, which is offered by the Water Environment Federation and the Pacific Northwest Clean Water Association. Earning third place honors in the regional senior division were Elias Wise and Amber Gonzalez of Alderwood High School. Gonzalez also earned the best program in chemical engineering award offered by the American Institution of Chemical Engineers. She claimed third place honors offered by the American Nuclear Society and a U.S. Air Force Certificate of Achievement. Wise also brought home a second place award offered by the Whitman Institute of Neuroscience. Earning honorable mentions in the high school division were Alderwood's Megan Cornelius and Addy Hernandez. Hernandez received first place honors from the St. Mary Medical Center for her project, as well as a U.S. Air Force Certificate of Achievement. Cornelius also claimed first place in environmental sciences from the U.S. Army, and an honorable mention from the Society of Women Engineers. Halley Rodriguez of Alderwood was honored by the American Association of University Women with the fair's Outstanding Woman's High School Science Project award. In the Mid-Columbia Regional Fair's junior division, two Harrison Middle School students earned third place honors in their science categories. Eighth grader Brenda Barrios earned third place honors in the eighth grade life sciences division, while seventh grader Tristan Abbott earned third place honors in the physical sciences division. Abbott and Barrios received special recognition from the Discovery Channel. Abbott was also recognized for having the outstanding structural engineering project at the fair, designated by the Structural Engineering Association of Washington, South Central chapter. Harrison Middle School student Naomy Velasco received an honorable mention for her project from the American Society of Mechanical Engineers. Middle schooler Tony Louie received an honorable mention from the Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers. Classmate Jessica Clements received an honorable mention from the Society of Women Engineers. Alderwood seventh grader Desiree Winters earned a certificate of excellence from the Washington Apple Education Foundation. Earning honorable mention honors in the eighth grade division of physical sciences were Alderwood's Adam Cleghorn, Aarika Hernandez and Megan Tyler. The Alderwood School District science fair exhibitors are now preparing to travel to a state competition during spring break, according to Joyce Stark, Alderwood High School science teacher. Stark said she will be taking 32 middle school students and 10 high school students to the Washington State Science and Engineering Fair. The state event will be held at Bremerton High School April 2 and 3"}
{"Id":"1101163503854","Title":"Day reporting helps juveniles return to school","Author":"Melissa Browning","Time":"3/18/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"Jason Moyer of the day reporting program spoke to Alderwood Kiwanis Club members Thursday morning about the program, which is designed to help transition juvenile offenders back into school. Moyer said each student in the program is court mandated to attend classes as a part of the day reporting program. Students from Toppenish to Grandview are attending classes at the facility, located in Alderwood. The program is designed to have three adults working directly with the youths, said Moyer, who is the teacher at the facility. Vianca Herrera keeps order in the classroom and there is a position for a case manager in the classroom to help students work through issues. Currently, there isn't a caseworker at the day reporting school. \"This is not a permanent stop,\" said Moyer. \"This is a transitional program, where we get them working on earning some credits.\" He said they also help socialize students and prepare them to return to the classroom. Geared toward students ages 14 to 18 years old, Moyer said some students who are 17-years-old haven't been in a classroom for three years. \"They have a hard time getting up in the morning,\" he said. Moyer and Herrera work directly with students, providing them positive adult interaction and a means to reach goals. Although some students require two to three months in the day reporting program, some are able to return to school in as little as two weeks, said Moyer. He said the program is designed to help troubled youths who haven't been successful in any other school environment, such as the regular high school or alternative school. \"A lot of these kids aren't only not having a whole lot of success in academics,\" said Moyer. \"There's not a whole lot of success in other aspects of their lives either. This is a last chance for a lot of these kids.\" Since the start of the program four students have transitioned back into school and additional youths will be going back by the end of the month. Although the program is court-ordered, Moyer said 75 percent of the students enrolled in the day reporting program want to go back to school and do everything they can to comply with the court order. \"Our recommendation goes a long way into getting them back into school,\" said Moyer, who added that the program is a joint effort between numerous agencies, including Educational Service District 105, the Alderwood Police Department, Comprehensive Mental Health and the juvenile court system. \"Twenty-five percent don't want to be there, but are still required to attend,\" said Moyer. The first month Alderwood police officers were picking up students living at Alderwood addresses who were not making it to class, said Herrera. After a few times, the students started attending classes on their own rather than having the police show up at their doorstep. Students who choose not to behave or comply are put under electronic monitoring house arrest, but are still required to attend classes or will be sent to the juvenile detention center, he said. Moyer said he is in search of service projects the students can work on to help tie the students to the community. \"We want them to feel good about giving,\" he said. The students are volunteering at the National Wildlife Refuge in Othello this week and next week will be working at the rose garden in Grandview. Moyer is also seeking donations of old furniture that can be used in a reading corner in the classroom. He said his desire is to create a space that is comfortable for the students to relax and read"}
{"Id":"1101163504088","Title":"Gonzaga Bound","Author":"John Panni","Time":"3/18/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"There may not be too many people in Alderwood who have heard of Josh Heytvelt. But there are two who know Heytvelt quite well, George and Carol Johnson, his grandparents. Heytvelt is a man among boys on the prep basketball court. Heytvelt, who weighs 215 lbs. and stands 6'10\", has been the centerpiece of the Clarkston boys basketball team for the last three years and will now be taking his talents to Gonzaga University to play for Mark Few and the Bulldogs on a full-ride scholarship. \"He is quite the player,\" said Clarkston Coach Brendan Johnson. \"He is legite. The talent is bar none. He has got that mix of talent that not a lot of big guys have.\" Heytvelt recently finished his senior year playing for the Bantams basketball team. Heytvelt was named the most valuable basketball player of the Greater Spokane League this past season. The senior center helped the Bantams to a 23-5 record, and league, district and regional titles. Heytvelt was also instrumental in the Bantams' seventh place finish at the 3A State tournament. Heytvelt's mother, formerly Michelle Johnson, is a 1975 graduate of Alderwood High School. His grandfather, George, is a 1948 Grizzly graduate. \"We are happy for him,\" said Heytvelt's grandfather. \"Everybody is anxious for him to get started (playing college basketball).\" Johnson said his grandson has always been quite the basketball player. \"I think he was born with a basketball in his hand,\" said Johnson. Heytvelt comes from quite a tall family, said Johnson, who stands 6'0\" himself. Heytvelt's father, Rolin, who is a captain with the Clarkston Fire Department, stands 6'5\". Johnson said his two granddaughters come in at 6'3\" and 6'4\". Coach Johnson, who has coached Heytvelt for the past three years, said he hasn't seen a big man like the 6'10\" senior who can play both inside and out like he does. \"He has been a big part of our success here,\" said Coach Johnson. Coach Johnson said his star center really didn't come into his own as a player until after Christmas break his sophomore season. Coach Johnson said Heytvelt moved up to varsity his sophomore year and led the team in rebounds and blocks, while averaging eight points per game. Heytvelt helped the Bantams to their first State tournament appearance since 1988. Heytvelt was named the newcomer of the year in the then Border League. Coach Johnson said Heytvelt was later selected to play for a Seattle Rotary Select basketball team and broke through as a star player that summer, taking part in some 50 games. \"I think that is when he realized his potential,\" said Coach Johnson. Heytvelt's shining performance this past season had to be during senior night. In a 76-28 victory over Shadle Park of Spokane, Heytvelt scored 36 points, hitting 14-of-17 shots, including 5-of-6 3-pointers. Coach Johnson said the leadership Heytvelt brought to the Bantams was what has really stood out. \"The offense is just the icing on the cake,\" said Coach Johnson. \"We kind of thrived off his energy.\" This season, Heytvelt led the team in charges, which is unheard of for a big man. \"There are not many big men who lead a team in charges,\" said Coach Johnson. \"He just knew when the right time (to take a charge) was.\" Coach Johnson said Heytvelt also has a sense about him on the floor on how to stay out of foul trouble. The Clarkston senior fouled out of just three games all season. Coach Johnson said when Heytvelt decided last June he was going to sign with Gonzaga, Bulldog Coach Mark Few nearly fell out of his chair. \"Mark told me he has the most skill of any big man they have recruited at Gonzaga,\" said Coach Johnson. \"That is an amazing statement coming from someone like Mark Few. Heytvelt's youth is about the only downside, said Coach Johnson. This summer, Heytvelt will be joining the 'Zags in Mexico to play basketball. Johnson said Heytvelt will still be 17 when he is playing college ball. Johnson also said Few has plans to start Heytvelt as a freshman. \"The next level is going to present some growing pains,\" said Coach Johnson. \"I think he (Heytvelt) still has to get that killer instinct. Hopefully at Gonzaga he can get that. If he can get through his freshman year, I predict good things for Josh.\" Johnson had an opportunity to see his grandson play at the State tournament a few weeks ago. \"I have only seen two games this season,\" said Johnson. \"But we are kept informed.\" Johnson said when his grandson was younger he never thought he would grow up to play for an elite college program such as Gonzaga. Johnson said his grandson had five to six big binders full of scholarship offers from colleges to play basketball. \"You name it, he has had an offer,\" said Johnson Johnson said his grandson is also quite the baseball player, standing out as a pitcher. Johnson said he can't wait to see his grandson play for Gonzaga and said he will watch him as often as he gets the opportunity. \"We just hope he remembers us when he is making 10 million,\" laughed the proud grandpa. John Panni/Alderwood Daily News George and Carol Johnson hold a picture of their grandson, Josh Heytvelt, following his 36-point performance on senior night during this past winter basketball season. Heytvelt earned a full-ride scholarship to Gonzaga University next year and is expected to start as a freshman"}
{"Id":"1101163504322","Title":"Local woman to teach floral design class","Author":"Melissa Browning","Time":"3/17/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"Alderwood resident Jane Swindell believes that flowers are not just for special occasions, but are for everyday living. As a child she remembers her mother's garden and the flowers that bloomed. \"In my mother's garden there were rows of Zinnias, marigolds and nectaroscordum,\" said Swindell. \"It was my job to go out and cut flowers.\" With an endless supply of fresh-cut flowers there were bouquets in every room, filling the house with life and color. Swindell hopes to pass her love of flowers on to local gardeners looking for a way to bring the beauty of the outdoors into their homes. She is teaching a floral design class through the Alderwood Parks and Recreation Department. \"I hope to teach people the basics of flower design and about the different kinds of arrangements they can make,\" said Swindell. She wants to teach her students how to make an English bouquet, which is a gathering of different kinds of flowers. She also plans to teach students how to make structured bouquets and something appropriate for a dinner party. Although class participants are encouraged to bring flowers from their gardens, Swindell said they may have to supplement with flowers from different floral departments. Swindell said a common misconception is that lots of flowers are needed for a bouquet. \"Often times it takes very few flowers to make a dramatic bouquet,\" said Swindell, adding that vases don't have to be detailed to make a beautiful bouquet. Another mistake people make when making floral arrangements is not having a general design idea they are trying to achieve when they begin. She added that table centerpieces are often too big and hinder conversation rather than enhance it. Swindell began working with floral design in 1975 when she started decorating for the annual Medical Ball that used to be held in Alderwood. \"One spring Maynard (Huenefeld) asked me if I wanted to come in and do some work,\" she said. \"I learned floral design from them.\" As the Huenefelds became more interested in propagating grapes, mint and hops, Swindell took over more of the floral aspects of the business. \"I've done flowers for weddings and I do the flowers for the church,\" said Swindell, who attends Holy Trinity Episcopal Church. She said during the summer months, she uses roses in the church's rose garden in floral displays. \"To see a beautiful rose that's opened naturally, is exquisite,\" said Swindell. \"I want to teach people how to use flowers,\" she said. \"Most flowers should blend in.\" She added that it's also important for people to know when a floral project is finished. Swindell's class is sponsored by the Alderwood Parks and Recreation Department. The class will be held Saturday, April 3, from 10 a.m. to noon. The cost to attend is 5 for in-city residents and 7.50 for non-city participants. For more information on the class contact the Alderwood Parks and Recreation Department, 837-8660. The class is limited to 15 students"}
{"Id":"1101163504557","Title":"Driving drunk","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"3/17/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"Having a few beers with friends, then getting in your car and driving home is never a good idea. Tuesday morning, students at Alderwood High School learned why that's something they shouldn't try. During the high school's two lunch periods students were offered the chance to put on fatal vision goggles, which simulate the effect of being under the influence, then were asked to get behind the wheel of a golf cart and drive through a course marked by bright orange cones. \"It was weird. I never imagined anything like it,\" said Iris Ruiz after taking a drive in the golf cart. Ruiz is a high school junior and member of the Alderwood Police Explorers. \"I don't know how people can drive drunk,\" she said. While Ruiz was driving the cart she couldn't manage to stay on the path. Instead, she resorted to driving through the cones and creating her own path. She said she had to take the glasses off at one point to find the roadway. As a Police Explorer, Ruiz said she has had the opportunity to go on ride-alongs with members of the local police force and has seen first-hand what drunk drivers look like on the road. \"They swerve all over the place,\" Ruiz said. Harrison Middle School Student Resource Officer Chico Rodriquez said the exercise was set up to show students how alcohol can affect their judgment. During a drive through the course with junior Devina Martinez, Rodriguez told her that driving while intoxicated a person's mind is telling them one thing, while their body is reacting to another. He explained that in your mind you think you can drive and overcome the obstacles of the road, but all the while your body is impaired by alcohol. Martinez said driving through the course was difficult. \"I didn't know where the road was,\" she said. \"I needed to take off the glasses to see that I was going on the road.\" As each of the students tried on the fatal vision goggles, which simulate different levels of intoxication, their reactions were all the same. They were surprised by just how much alcohol can impair a person's vision. Senior Amanda Martinez said when she put on the goggles, which simulated what a person feels like after five drinks, everything was blurry and she was seeing double and sometimes triple. \"It was weird,\" she said. Sophomore Sarah Martinez, who put the goggles on to try passing the field sobriety test, which consisted of walking a straight line, said she was surprised by just how much of effect the glasses had on her. \"It makes you dizzy, like you don't know where you're going,\" she said. Michelle Gonzalez, who helped organize the drug and alcohol awareness week activities at the high school, said the driving experiment was meant to show students that although they may think they are capable of driving under the influence, \"...here they see they can not.\" Gonzalez said the experiment was set up to allow students to take time during their lunch break to experience what it's like to drive while intoxicated. \"They want to feel it, to see what it's like,\" Gonzalez said. She said after experiencing a drive around the course while wearing the fatal vision goggles the students can see why driving under the influence can be such a grave mistake to make. \"It could be the decision they make between life and death,\" Gonzalez said of the decision to drive under the influence. The driving exhibition is just one of several activities planned throughout the week. Monday, students at the school were invited to listen to a guest speaker give a presentation on the effects of drugs and alcohol"}
{"Id":"1101163519041","Title":"Grizzlies sink the Pirate ship","Author":"Bob Story","Time":"3/17/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"The best way to describe what the Alderwood High School boys soccer team did to 4A Davis in last night's non-league season opener might be to say the Grizzlies took it to another level. Amazing ball movement, reacting to every play, backing up each other on the field. All of these vital elements to playing a successful soccer game were present last night for the Grizzlies as they shut out the Pirates 7-0. \"It is the same system as last year,\" said Alderwood Coach Juan Pineda, who took the Grizzlies to the 3A State tournament last year for the first time in a decade. \"We are doing the same good things we were doing at the end of last year, but we are doing them at a different pace.\" The first half of last night's game saw both teams trying to dictate the pace of the game. The Grizzlies finally broke through when Junior Martinez, the reigning Mid-Valley League player of the year, scored at the 21st minute. Martinez would add another goal right before the end of the first half at the 36th minute. Teammate German Torres had the other first half goal, coming at the 26th minute. Leading 3-0, Alderwood's Luis Galvan took away any hopes the Pirates had of coming back when he scored a goal at the 54th minute of the second half. Teammates Miguel Galvan, Kyle Van de Graaf and Mario de la Torre all scored in the final couple of minutes to give the Grizzlies the 7-0 shutout victory to start the season. Grizzly keeper Johnny Hernandez, who had nine saves on the day, preserved the shutout victory for Alderwood when he stopped a penalty kick with 16 minutes to play in the game. Pineda said he was very pleased with how Hernandez played in the box for Alderwood. Hernandez showed last night he was capable of replacing the big shoes of former Grizzly keeper David Ruelas, who graduated after last season. Davis had 12 shots on goal. Acension Abundez had 12 saves in what was a busy night for the Pirate goalie. The Grizzlies had 14 shots on goal. Pineda said he is working on implementing a rotating system that has everyone involved in the game. The system would involve players moving up in different spots on the field while other teammates fall back to fill the voids. \"We kept improving our play during the game while the other team couldn't stand our pressure,\" said Pineda. Pineda said his players still need to work on picking up players faster. The Grizzly coach said during the game the Pirates were able to move players around quickly and Alderwood struggled to find them on the field. Pineda said he was very impressed with his team's outing for the first game of the season. \"I think the difference was our team came out hungry,\" said Pineda. \"The difference is now (compared with last season) they are playing by instinct. This is the next level.\" The Grizzlies (1-0) are off until Tuesday, March 23, when Alderwood travels to Prosser for a 4 p.m. game. The league game will be played at the football stadium"}
{"Id":"1101163519307","Title":"'No parent left behind' conference big success; parents ask for more","Author":"Jamie Smart","Time":"3/16/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"More than 60 parents showed up this past Saturday at Harrison Middle School to participate in the first \"No Parent Left Behind\" conference. The conference offered parents information about stages of their children's academic and social development, as well as information about testing and school legislation. Taking its theme from the federal No Child Left Behind legislation, the conference was designed to given parents a thorough knowledge of what goes on at school, explained Alderwood School District Home Liaison Nathan Marchello. The parents attended three workshops, as well as a resource fair featuring community social services that are available. Workshops covered the stages of a child's development, what to do and say at a parent-teacher conference and alternatives to TV. \"We had parents asking us to hold this type of conference more than once a year by the end of the day, said Marchello. \"It was a very positive experience for everyone,\" he said. The most popular of the workshops offered information for parent-teacher conferences, which will be held in the Alderwood School District April 1 and 2, just prior to spring break. \"We offered suggestions for the type of questions parents might ask at a conference,\" explained Edalina Diaz, workshop leader. \"We encouraged parents to ask about their students' academic and social behavior during the parent conferences,\" Diaz said. \"Our aim was to empower parents to learn more about their child's teacher and their child's behaviors and their progress in the classroom,\" she explained. \"We encouraged parents to learn what their child's educational goals are and to ask teachers how they can help,\" she added. Diaz said a lot of the parents were concerned they wouldn't be able to understand the English speaking teacher. \"But we told them interpreters will be available at the conferences,\" she added. Diaz said information on the Washington Assessment of Students Learning tests and district retention policies were also explained. \"Everyone seemed very thankful for the information,\" she said. The day-long conference was hosted by the Alderwood School District's Community Outreach program. The resource fair included materials from such agencies as Lower Valley AmeriCorps, Northwest Community Action Center, Consumer Credit Counseling Services, the CORE (Choices Options Resources Education) program, Washington State Migrant Council, Yakima County Re-licensing program and state Migrant Student Data and Recruitment Office. \"We have a lot of people to thank for helping put this conference together, including Alderwood merchants, who donated food and materials for the lunch and the resource booths,\" Marchello said. \"One of the most exciting things to come out of the day was some parents have volunteered to work on future conferences and to go into classrooms to help their children.\" Marchello said"}
{"Id":"1101163519541","Title":"PRIDE teacher earns state accolades","Author":"Jamie Smart","Time":"3/16/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Kylee Sonnabend-Liberty was so busy worrying about a fellow teacher, she didn't hear her name called as the winner of the 2004 WALA (Washington Association for Learning Alternatives) Educator of the Year award. \"I was shocked when my dinner companions told me they were calling my name,\" said the reserved PRIDE High School English teacher. She received her award during the annual WALA spring conference held at Ocean Shores this past weekend. Sonnabend-Liberty, who has taught at PRIDE High School for the past five years, said she didn't know she was even nominated for the state award given to teachers of alternative education. \"She goes far beyond what's expected of her as a teacher,\" said Gary Babcock, PRIDE High School administrator \"She is critical of the needs of her students and re-evaluating how to best get the information to them,\" Babcock said. In the nominating letter to the state association, Babcock described Sonnabend-Liberty as a self-disciplined person who demands of best of herself and her students. \"Under her guidance, students grow not only in skills but in self-confidence and assurance of their abilities,\" Babcock wrote. \"She is a person who overworks,\" said Babcock. \"It's just part of her make-up. She doesn't think of her efforts as going the extra mile. She considers it part of the job,\" he added. Sonnabend-Liberty, who has spent much of her career doing long-term substitution work, holds a Master's in education from Heritage College. She began teaching full time when her career as a karate teacher came to an end as a result of a hip injury. \"I do tend to over analyze my job a lot,\" she admitted.\" I try to think of ways to do it better tomorrow,\" she added. Sonnabend-Liberty not only teaches English at PRIDE High, she works with students on their learning experience plans and with seniors working on their senior portfolios. She serves as PRIDE High School's coordinator for MAP (Measures of Academic Progress) testing and works to monitor students' reading progress. She is also an active participant in the school improvement plan and the district teaching and learning committees. \"She is a role model not only for her students but for all educators, who truly want to make a difference and impact students' lives in a positive manner,\" Babcock said"}
{"Id":"1101163519775","Title":"Schutt remains a winner with Idaho State Bengals","Author":"Bob Story","Time":"3/16/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"POCATELLO, IDAHO - It seems no matter where Jessica Schutt goes, she's a winner. Schutt, a Alderwood High School hoop standout in the early 1990's who went on to star for the University of Oregon women's basketball team, is now coaching at Idaho State University. Not so surprising, Schutt's Bengals are heading for an NIT first round showdown with powerful Iowa State. It is only the second time in Idaho State University history that its women's basketball team has qualified for a postseason tournament. The first time was in 2001, when the Lady Bengals won the Big Sky Conference and earned an automatic bid to the NCAA Championship Tournament. Schutt is in the first year of her contract as an assistant coach, serving under Idaho State University head coach Jon Newlee. She accepted the varsity assistant coaching position after serving one year as the head coach of the Tacoma Community College women's basketball team. Schutt's Tacoma Titans, who were 12-9 the year before Schutt came on board, finished the regular season with a 20-5 mark. Her Titans won the league title, earning a berth into the NWACC Championship Tournament. The Tacoma school hadn't qualified for the NWACC tourney 17 years prior to Schutt coming on board. Because of the Titans' success, Schutt was selected by her peers as the NWACC coach of the year last season. A similar turnaround occurred this season at Idaho State University. The Bengals finished at 6-20 last season in Newlee's first year as head coach. This season, with Schutt at his side, Idaho State has amassed 20 victories compared with only eight losses. The difference in Idaho State's record from the 2002-03 season to this season is the second biggest turnaround among all NCAA Division I schools this year. Only the University of North Carolina at Asheville women's basketball team has improved at a better clip, upping its 2002-03 mark of 3-25 to 19-9 in 2003-04. Schutt credits the dramatic improvement by the Idaho State team to the leadership of Newlee. She said the turnaround is probably a combination of the fine job Newlee did in recruiting seven new players to the Lady Bengals program, and the philosophy Newlee has established with the team. Schutt also notes that Newlee's motion offense has added zip and excitement to the Idaho State game plan, explaining that the new offense was designed with the players who were on board in mind. Now 30 years old, Schutt was the first Alderwood High School female basketball player to score more than 1,000 points during her prep career. There have been only two Lady Grizzlies since then to have accomplished that feat. Schutt, who was named the MVP of the Class 2A State tournaments both her junior and senior years in high school, went on to star for the University of Oregon women's hoop team. As a junior, she led the Pac-10 in free throw shooting accuracy by sinking more than 83 percent of her shots from the charity stripe. Schutt also set the University of Oregon school record for 3-point field goals made during a single game, when she bombed in eight treys against USC. Following her collegiate playing days, Schutt went on to serve as an assistant coach at St. Martin's College. A year later, she accepted the head assistant's job at Montana State/Northern, staying with the women's basketball program there for four years until deciding to get away from basketball. A couple of seasons away from the game was all it took to convince Schutt to return to coaching. When the Tacoma Community College head coach's position became her's for the taking, she got back into basketball at the start of the 2002-03 season. Now, Schutt and company at little noticed Idaho State University are heading off to Iowa State University as decided underdogs. \"It's definitely going to be a challenge,\" Schutt said of drawing Iowa State as a first round opponent in this year's National Invitation Tournament (NIT). \"We just got through playing in the Big Sky Conference championship game in front of 5,200 people. There'll be 12,000 people at our NIT game this coming Wednesday at Iowa State,\" Schutt said. \"They will definitely provide us with a challenge,\" she said of the Big 12 Conference school. An upset victory over Iowa State this Wednesday would propel the Idaho State Lady Bengals into an NIT second round match-up against the winner of the Xavier and Miami of Ohio game that is also being played this week. Whatever the outcome of tomorrow's NIT contest, Schutt said her first year being involved with the Lady Bengals hoop program has been a positive experience. \"I love it here,\" she said of the Pocatello area. \"I thoroughly enjoy working with the coaching staff here at Idaho State, as well as the players on the team. \"It's a super place to be, a great place to work,\" Schutt added. And, of course, there are the fringe benefits. Like this week's all-expenses paid trip to Iowa State University"}
{"Id":"1101163520010","Title":"Activities director looks to improve quality of life for Sheffield Manor residents","Author":"Melissa Browning","Time":"3/15/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"For Judy Small, every day is a picnic as she develops activities, events and shows for the residents of Sheffield Manor in Prosser. Small, the activities director and director of marketing for the retirement center, shared with Alderwood Kiwanis Club members Thursday some of the activities that are held at the center on a daily basis. She said after 20 years in the wine industry, she found herself more and more isolated with her computer and decided to look for a new career. It was her mother that inspired her to begin looking into positions at retirement centers. With little experience, she was hired by Sheffield Manor, where she has developed a program that has been described as one of the best in the Valley. Mostly, she said, she listened to the residents and designed a program around what they wanted to do. \"I've found that these people are wonderful people and they have so much to offer,\" Small said of the residents in the facility. She said it's important to keep the elderly physically and mentally active and it is her job to make sure they are. In the mornings she motivates residents to go for a morning walk on one of the pathways. They also have sittercise classes and tai-chi for residents, said Small. Indoor or outdoor golf putting and bowling are also slated activities for residents. \"They will compete in golfing or bowling tournaments,\" said Small. \"We find things to keep them active and to keep them moving. We want them to continue exercising and we encourage them to walk.\" Small said that 100 steps make 1/10 of a mile, something she often tells her clients to get them motivated. Often after breakfast the residents will go on a bus excursion, shopping or on a mystery drive. Small said in the past the residents have gone to the Washington State University Extension, to see the murals in Toppenish or on a scenic mountain trip on a mystery drive. The residents also enjoy country drives, which allow them to get out and enjoy the day. \"Now we're doing bird watching,\" said Small. Residents will go on walks in the back yard of the manor and look for different kinds of birds. \"We believe continued senior education is so important,\" said Small. \"These people have so much to offer.\" To encourage learning, Small plans afternoons of reading and poetry at the manor's fireside. Local authors have also visited the residents to speak about their books. A few residents have even expressed an interest in learning French and Spanish, said Small. Also planned into the activities schedule are travel slide shows of different places Small and other people she knows have visited. \"I usually have a lecture to go along with it,\" she said. For those wanting to participate in church services there are Bible studies Friday afternoons. She said the residents gather to sing hymns on Sunday morning. Small added that they also have a program called \"church hopping\" that allows residents to visit different churches in the area as a part of the program. The facility currently has 27 apartments, but in the near future cottages will be added to the property, for those who desire a bit more independence. The facility has independent living residents and those requiring assisted living services"}
{"Id":"1101163520244","Title":"Community leaders honored at annual Alderwood banquet","Author":"Jamie Smart","Time":"3/15/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"An evening of laughter, surprises and really good desserts sums up the 2004 Alderwood Chamber of Commerce annual awards banquet held this past Saturday night. The award winners' families and friends gathered at Navarro's Family Center to celebrate their well-deserved recognition, as well as an entertaining auction of delectable desserts. More than 1,500 was raised from the highly competitive dessert auction, which preceded the announcement of the outstanding citizen awards. More than 13 desserts, such as a banana cream pie which sold for 150, and a mango cheesecake, that raised at least 80, were offered for auction for the Chamber coffers. While the sold-out crowd of banquet attendees enjoyed their expensive, but tasty desserts, the Chamber's outstanding citizens were presented their awards. This year, two Alderwood senior citizens were honored for their many volunteer community service hours. \"This town's senior citizens are so worthy of recognition, it is hard to pick just one,\" said Greg Wells, who served as master of ceremonies for the evening's festivities. Wells described one awardee as Alderwood Community Hospital's goodwill ambassador and the other as a woman who takes her work home with her. Known as the \"voice of Alderwood Community Hospital,\" Mabel Kluth and American Red Cross and church relief worker Gay Roskamp of the Alderwood Christian Reformed Church shared the Outstanding Senior Citizen award. Long-time Alderwood Pioneer Elementary School Principal Stan Davis and Pioneer Elementary School fourth grade teacher Rose Hall shared the Chamber's Outstanding Educator honor during Saturday's banquet. Davis, who will retire at the end of the 2004 school year after 30 years in education, was honored for his ability to be an inspiration to staff and students, alike. Hall, who has shaped the minds of area youngsters for more than 40 years, currently teaches 26 \"lucky\" fourth graders, said Wells. \"She makes her students feel as though each is teacher's pet,\" said Wells. Alderwood High School senior Stacey Gorski, fresh from claiming grand championship honors at the 49th annual Mid Columbia Regional Science Fair, was named as the Chamber's Outstanding Youth. Wells said Gorksi exemplifies the qualities that adults look for in the young leaders of the community. \"She is mature and responsible and manages to balance her many activities with a decent amount of fun,\" he said. A familiar face at the Alderwood city parks, Luigi Rosal, was honored as the Chamber's Outstanding Public Employee. Wells called Rosal, who has worked for the city for the past 25 years, \"the \"man of the year for his untiring help with community events.\" Honored as the outstanding new business in the community was L&M Screenprinting, owned by Marietta and Larry Schmid. The couple opened their Alderwood print shop just a year ago, said Wells, who described the husband-wife team as friendly, multi-talented and community spirited. \"They pride themselves on going the extra mile for their customers,\" he said. Alderwood restaurateur Jose J. Mora of El Conquistador was named as the Outstanding Businessperson of the Year. Mora, who arrived in Alderwood just seven years ago, operates two restaurants in the community, as well as a mobile vendor wagon, said Wells. \"He's in the business of getting down to business,\" Wells said. Alex de la Cruz and wife, Audrey, were honored for their outstanding community beautification efforts at their brand new A&W/Kentucky Fried Chicken franchise on Yakima Valley Highway. \"The appearance of the couple's building and its landscaping is pleasing to the eye and a real benefit to our community,\" Wells said. Long-time farmer Cliff Van Belle was honored as the community's \"Outstanding Agri-Businessman of the Year.\" Van Bell, a native Alderwoodr, farms 1,000 acres of wheat, corn, hay and mint. \"He plays as hard as he works,\" said Wells. \"He is passionate about snowmobiling, NASCAR and fishing and water skiing with his grandchildren,\" Wells said. Dr. John W. Loffer was named the \"Outstanding Volunteer of the Year.\" Wells described Loffer as a physician who still makes house calls for his elderly patients. He is also the medical director for Lower Valley Hospice and the rehabilitation doctor for Hillcrest Manor. \"He goes way beyond the call of duty,\" said Wells. \"He also volunteers for the school athletic programs and the local Boy Scouts of America program,\" Wells added. Ruth Barry was awarded \"Outstanding Health Care\" honors for her dedication to nursing education. A clinical instructor at Yakima Valley Community college, \"Barry exemplifies the excellence we want for all medical personnel,\" said Wells. In addition to the awards ceremony, the Chamber hosted a silent auction during the course of the evening, which raised several thousand dollars for ongoing Chamber projects, said Tom Gaulke, Chamber president"}
{"Id":"1101163520510","Title":"Two 4A teams beat Alderwood girls","Author":"Bob Story","Time":"3/15/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"The Alderwood High School girls fastpitch softball team had its hands full this past Saturday. In the 2004 spring openers, the Lady Grizzlies were clipped by a pair of strong Class 4A schools. The Enumclaw Hornets, which advanced to the State tournament last spring, edged the Class 3A Lady Grizzlies 7-3 in the first of three games played in Alderwood on Saturday. Spanaway Lake swept the afternoon doubleheader from Alderwood, winning 5-0 and 28-15. Alderwood Coach Kris Gonzalez said despite sustaining the three losses Saturday, she remains optimistic the Lady Grizzlies will fare well this season. \"We're young, we only have one senior on the varsity. Considering who we played Saturday, I thought the girls performed well,\" said Gonzalez. \"Especially on offense,\" she continued. \"Last year at this time of the season, we were only coming up with one or two hits a game. But we had three hits against Enumclaw, then five hits and nine hits in the two late games against Spanaway Lake,\" Gonzalez said. The last of the three games played Saturday, won 28-15 by Spanaway Lake, there was a total of 26 hits. \"I think fatigue kicked in,\" said Gonzalez,\" explaining the two clubs committed a total of 15 errors. Between the tiring arms of the opposing pitchers and the fielding miscues, the final tally more resembled a football score. Alderwood's top guns at the plate in the Spanaway Lake nightcap were Crystal Soto and Jessica Serl. Soto had a double in the second inning and an RBI single in the third enroute to posting a 3-for-3 effort at the plate. Serl added a 2-for-2 offensive performance for the Lady Grizzlies. Spanaway Lake's top hitter in the twin bill finale was its pitcher, Kilgore, who went 4-for-5 by slapping four singles. Kilgore had a 2-for-3 performance in the opener against Alderwood, which included socking a solo home run in the top of the seventh. Serl was 1-for-3 in the 5-0 loss to Spanaway Lake. Gonzalez said none of her Lady Grizzlies advanced past second base in the opening game against Spanaway Lake. \"We came through with five hits against them, but we left them all stranded,\" said Gonzalez. \"We made some base running errors.\" In the day's first game against Enumclaw, the Lady Grizzlies scratched out three runs in the bottom of the third, and were ahead 3-1 heading into the top of the fifth frame. The Hornets exploded for five runs in the fifth, though, blanking Alderwood through the final four innings enroute to scoring their come-from-behind 7-3 victory. Alderwood's three-run third began with Lacey Yanez drawing a walk. Yanez ended up scoring on her own, as she stole second and advanced two more bases on two passed balls. Following a strikeout, Jessica Cruz drew another walk for the Lady Grizzlies, moving to second on yet another passed ball. Following the second strikeout of the inning, Jenny Wells clutched up and drove in Cruz with a single. Serl closed out the scoring for Alderwood by lashing an RBI double to plate Wells. Pitching-wise for Alderwood, Erika Martinez went the distance in the opener against Enumclaw. She scattered 10 hits in the 7-3 loss, giving up five walks along the way while fanning one. Martinez (0-2) also took the loss in the nightcap against Spanaway Lake, pitching the first three innings. She departed the pitching rubber with her club trailing by a 23-12 count. Viri Pasillas pitched all of the opening game against Spanaway Lake, limiting Alderwood's 4A opponent to just five hits. She walked only three. Pasillas (0-1) was touched for five runs in the last two innings she pitched against Spanaway Lake in the second game of the twin bill. In looking ahead to the remainder of the season, Gonzalez said she has everyone back off last year's squad with the exception of Sonya Ramos. \"Those will be some difficult shoes to fill,\" Gonzalez said of her shortstop's departure, \"But we're a year older and a year more experienced. \"I think we're going to be alright,\" she added. Serl will be replacing Ramos at short, and based on how she played this past Saturday, Gonzalez said Serl should fill in nicely there. The one other change the Lady Grizzlies must make this spring is at third. Emily Wells had been penciled in to play the hot corner, but she suffered a broken ankle in practice and most likely will miss the rest of the season. Gonzalez brought up Eleanor Martinez from the JV this past Saturday, and she filled in there as well as could have been expected. Gonzalez said Martinez was a second baseman on the JV, so will need some time to make the adjustment at third. Alderwood's varsity is scheduled to take on visiting Kiona-Benton in a single game this coming Thursday, beginning at 3:30 p.m"}
{"Id":"1101163520744","Title":"MHS senior sets 'Human Trap' on the internet","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"3/12/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"MABTON - When you ask Mabton High School senior David Guzman how he came to be a one-man-band, his answer is typical of most 18-year olds...he wanted to try something new. However, one thing that separates Guzman from other students at his school is that he has taken his talent and put it out there for others to hear and critique. Guzman, who calls his project The Human Trap, can be heard on the website GarageBand.com. The website offers bands and musicians a chance to put their music on the internet and get feedback from others. Guzman said he first heard about the website through a motivational speaker. Guzman said he then visited the site and decided it was something he wanted to try. He explained that letting others hear his music wasn't something new to him. In the past he had put songs on CDs and given them out to friends. However, before he could submit his song to the website he said he had to complete 15 reviews of other songs that were already posted. He explained that when reviewing a song you are not told the name of the band, where they're from or the type of music they play. Instead, you just hear the song and then review it, which helps remove bias. \"That's what I wanted people to do for my song,\" Guzman said. And that's exactly what people have been doing for Guzman's song \"Mabtonites,\" which since being placed on the website has received so many favorable reviews that it was highlighted as a track of the day on GarageBand.com in late February. Guzman said the track, which is an up tempo hard rock song, is one he created in April 2003, but re-recorded later in the year before posting it on the internet. Guzman said trying to find a genre for this song was difficult because he doesn't quite fit into the metal category but wasn't like the other hard rock songs on the website. \"I expected people to slam it because it didn't sound like the other hard rock songs,\" Guzman said. \"I was surprised by the first few reviews.\" In fact, Guzman said his first few reviews were so positive that overnight his song went from being ranked number 600 to being ranked number 120. \"The highest I got was number 71,\" Guzman said, noting that the ranking takes in about 700 songs. As for how Guzman came to provide the vocals on \"Mabtonites,\" as well as play rhythm guitar, bass, drums and lead guitar on the track, he said it all came from the purchase of a new piece of equipment. He explained that he also plays in the band Dysphonia with his father and brother, so writing music and playing instruments isn't anything new to him. However, when his family purchased a piece of equipment that is like a mixing board and disk recorder in one, he figured he could try creating a song where he did everything. He said after recording his first song like that and liking how it sounded he just kept going with the idea until he had a mix of eclectic tunes. \"Every song has its own sound to it,\" Guzman said. And \"Mabtonites\" isn't the only song Guzman plans on putting up at GarageBand.com. He said he plans on submitting another song soon. \"It's about mad cow disease in Mabton,\" Guzman said. \"I don't like to write songs about love and breaking up because I can't relate to that.\" . Ellie Olmsen can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or e-mail her at eOlmsen@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101163520979","Title":"Alderwood dancer/teacher heading to national competition","Author":"Jamie Smart","Time":"3/12/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"Alderwood jazz dance teacher Kristine Gimlin is too excited to sit still for very long when she starts talking about her coming trip to Denver, Colo. In April, Gimlin, a Martin School of Dance ballet and jazz instructor, will compete in a national \"hip hop\" competition hosted by some of the nation's most important music video choreographers. \"I'm going to be dancing in front of some of my heroes in the dance world,\" she said of the unusual opportunity. \"It's a dream come true,\" she smiled. Making her achievement even more noteworthy is that the 4'11\" woman started taking hip hop dance lessons less than a year ago. Gimlin, who began dancing in middle school, participated on the Prosser High School dance team for four years. \"I dreamed and planned to go to California following high school graduation to be a dancer,\" she said. But hip and knee injuries sidelined the young woman for three years. She only recently began dancing again and joined the Martin School of Dance's pool of instructors just two years ago. Since that time, in addition to teaching pre-schoolers the rudiments of ballet, Gimlin has taught advanced jazz techniques at the Alderwood dance school. In order to improve her own abilities, last summer Gimlin decided to start taking hip hop dance classes at the Westlake Dance Center in Seattle. She said it was serendipity that talent scouts saw her dancing in mid-February. Representatives of national talent agencies, who were in town seeking new dancers, happened to drop in at the center where Gimlin was in a hip hop dance class. \"They asked me to take part in Monster Hip Hop auditions,\" she explained. Gimlin describes hip hop as a very loose, physical style of dance that combines rigorous and rhythmic jazz-step type moves. \"I was surprised when I was asked to take part in the Monster of Hip Hop auditions,\" she explained. Her invitation to compete in Denver came after talent scouts watched as Gimlin moved through three cuts from among the hundreds of young dancers, all hoping to catch the eyes of the scouts. \"It was the best time I've ever had dancing,\" Gimlin admitted. She said her biggest thrill of the weekend came when she met her idol, Mr. Wiggles, the self-proclaimed founder of the hip hop dance craze. \"He gave me a compliment on my dancing,\" she said. The agencies gave out scholarships to the top two dancers at the Seattle \"Monster\" audition, Gimlin said. As one of the top 10 dancers ranked at the event, she rated a special invitation to attend the Denver event. \"I was encouraged by Mr. Wiggles to participate in Denver,\" she explained. \"It's a realization of a dream,\" the 23-year-old Prosser woman said. While she doesn't plan to run off to California now to be a dancer, she does plan to share her newly found expertise with local students. She said the two-day adventure in hip hop has cemented her decision to teach. \"I really want to take my students to the next level,\" she said. \"I feel I can help others realize their dreams,\" she said. \"But it was a great thrill to be recognized,\" she added"}
{"Id":"1101163521213","Title":"New Alderwood program engaging deaf students","Author":"Jamie Smart","Time":"3/12/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"The proof of the success of the Alderwood School District's new deaf education program is summed up in an anecdote shared with Alderwood Noon Rotary Clubs members Monday. Two little boys in Kathleen Hisley's classroom were seen walking down the hall whispering to each other in animated conservation. \"The one boy has a cochlea transplant and the other child is profoundly deaf,\" she explained. \"They talk together all the time and the sounds they make are unintelligible to hearing persons. \"We've had to work with them to help them understand that walking in the halls between classes requires they be quiet,\" Hisley said. \"They continue to talk all the time,\" Hisley said. \"But now they whisper to each other, even though neither can really hear what the other is saying,\" she said. \"My point is that children are children. Where once my students felt isolated, even hoping not to be noticed, they are now engaged in real conversation and social interaction,\" Hisley said. \"And, they are amazing,\" she smiled. Hisley was hired by the Alderwood School District this past fall to head its program for educating students who are deaf or hearing impaired. Hisley, who holds a Master's of education from the University of Utah, uses a combination of American Sign Language and Exact English to give her students the tools to communicate with each other and their hearing peers, while gaining a well-rounded education. \"Our ultimate goal is to return the children into regular classrooms with extra support as is needed,\" Hisley said. Hisley works with kindergarten and first through fourth grade students at Washington Elementary School. She is now working with about eight of the district's youngest non-hearing students. \"We work on meeting the individual needs of the child,\" Hisley said. \"I look at my classroom as a preparation place for the youngsters,\" she said. \"Our aim is to aid the student in learning to live and function in a hearing world,\" she said. \"We teach them to be their own advocate,\" she added"}
{"Id":"1101163556525","Title":"Mabton valedictorian learns to see the world from different eyes","Author":"Melissa Browning","Time":"3/11/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"MABTON - Getting on the bus headed for Ellensburg to the Washington State Migrant Council Student Leadership Program state conference, a reserved Rosa Aviles, 18, noticed one girl on the bus she thought was \"mean.\" Arriving in Ellensburg, Aviles found herself rooming with the girl she had stereotyped as \"mean.\" Ironically, stereotyping others was one of the topics discussed at the four-day conference held March 4-7 at Central Washington University. \"We learned about looking past the outside to who people really are and not stereotyping them, which is what I did when I first saw the girl who became my roommate,\" said Aviles. After Aviles got to know the girl, she learned that she was actually a nice person and as Aviles put it, \"she was really cool.\" Breaking down barriers was one of the goals of the conference last week. Aviles said the theme \"Trying to see the world from different eyes\" was based on the idea of helping the high school students find themselves, their second face or what's on the inside. \"I see the world from my own perspective,\" said Aviles. \"I actually learned how to see that other people have problems too. I learned to see people and looking out there I am not the only migrant with different problems.\" Aviles said the first day of the conference the 70 teens from around the state learned how to get along with other people. She also learned how to set goals for herself. \"They showed us how to set goals for the future,\" said Aviles. She is no stranger to the idea of goal setting and pushing herself. Aviles said it has been her goal to be among the top of her high school graduating class. This June she will be the valedictorian at Mabton High School. She has also had a goal for higher education. She wants to attend Gonzaga University, to which she has already been accepted. A remaining goal for Aviles is to become an emergency flight nurse. Aviles isn't sure how she was selected from her school to attend the conference, but she said, \"I do a lot of stuff and people volunteer me for a lot of things.\" A leader in her school, Aviles is active in the FFA program, has helped with the townhall meetings held in Mabton, works on community service projects and is a volunteer with the Mabton Fire Department. She is also part of the Gate's Achiever program. The migrant council conference also taught Aviles how to be a problem solver, which she said is important because many teens don't know how to solve their own problems. \"There's a lot of kids out there who commit suicide because they don't know how to solve their own problems,\" said Aviles. \"At the conference, they showed us a process on how to analyze our problems"}
{"Id":"1101163556822","Title":"Forum focuses on how a national news story can affect a small town","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"12/23/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"is a date that will always carry a certain amount of significance for the residents of Mabton, many of whom earn their living in the dairy and cattle industries. Wednesday evening, representatives from the local media, along with several members of the Mabton community, gathered at the Silver Dollar restaurant in downtown Mabton to talk about how the discovery of Bovine Spongiform Encephalopathy (BSE), or mad cow disease, at a dairy farm near Mabton affected the community and those members of the media who regularly cover the area. The forum, titled \"Mad Cow: Not a Black and White Issue,\" was presented by the William O. Douglas chapter of the Society of Professional Journalists (SPJ). Nathan Isaacs, president of the William O. Douglas chapter of SPJ, told the 22 people in attendance, which included a mix of area reporters, community members and representatives from the local dairy and cattle industries, that the focus of the forum was to discuss how a world-side story affects a local community after the satellite trucks have left town. Panel members for the forum included Sarah Jenkins, editor of the Yakima Herald; Gary Darigol, news director for KNDO television, an NBC affiliate based in Yakima; Mabton Mayor David Conradt; Silver Dollar Manager Linda Chester; and LaDon Linde, vice president of the Washington State Dairy Federation. Jenkins and Darigol both said the announcement that a suspected case of mad cow disease had been found in the Lower Alderwood Valley came at a time when news is traditionally slow, and when many people in the industry take time off to be with family for the holidays. However, Jenkins said as soon as the announcement was made everyone at the newspaper knew they had a challenge in front of them. \"We just knew it was going to be a tough story to cover,\" Jenkins said. Darigol said the same thoughts rippled through his newsroom. \"We realized immediately that this was a huge story and an important story,\" Darigol said. But, before reporters could be sent out to gather information, both Jenkins and Darigol explained that there were some tough decisions that would have to be made. \"We tried to give to the viewer what we thought would be most important to them,\" Darigol said. \"We wanted to present the facts as fast as we could find them.\" Jenkins said the Yakima Herald staff knew that the barrage of media coverage on Mabton would be part of the story they told, but they also knew that it meant they would be competing with a variety of other news sources on the story. Jenkins said the newspaper knew it would have to keep its stories as local as possible. \"This was not a story about cows, it was a story about people,\" Jenkins said. She said for 11 days following the Dec. 23 announcement the Yakima Herald ran locally written stories about the mad cow issue on the front page, then on day 12 the paper switched over to running a mix of locally written stories and stories written by members of the national media. Jenkins said the mad cow issue stayed on the front page for 26 days. For Linde, a local dairyman, the announcement that a suspected case of mad cow disease had been found in Mabton brought with it an entirely different experience. He said he remembers getting a phone call from his brother in Oregon telling him about the discovery and what had been on the news. Linde said it wasn't more than an hour later that he began receiving calls from members of the media looking for comments on the discovery. However, reporters weren't the only people calling Linde. He said other dairy and cattle farmers were calling, asking what they should do about the reporters and satellite trucks that were beginning to gather outside their farms. Linde said one of the largest concerns the industry felt, was what all of the media coverage would mean for the cattle and dairy markets. In the end, Linde said he feels that it's a tribute to how the media handled the issue and how the United States Department of Agriculture worked to get information out that the discovery didn't become a disaster for the industry. Conradt said when the announcement was made and the media began to descend on Mabton, many residents in the community turned to city hall and the mayor for information about what was happening. Conradt said looking back on the events following the discovery, there was a definite difference between the national media attention and the way the local media covered the story. \"The local media focused on the effects of the national media,\" Conradt said. Chester, manager of the Silver Dollar, also dealt with the media in Mabton. However, she dealt with them on a different level. She explained that the community restaurant ended up serving as a place for reporters to hang out between press conferences and national announcements. Chester said when she heard news about the discovery of mad cow disease, she didn't think much of it. It wasn't until she was heading to work the next morning to start making breakfast at the restaurant that she figured out just what the announcement meant. She said as she turned the corner to go to the restaurant she was bombarded by a wall of light, even though it was still dark outside. The light was from the cameras of the different news trucks that had rolled in over night. Chester said that first day her customers were made up mostly of members of the media. The dairymen who usually come in for breakfast were suspiciously missing, she added. However, Chester explained that serving as the hub for members of the media meant that she got to know the men and women behind the questions in a different way. \"I got to make a connection with the media, a different connection,\" Chester said. \"I got to know them.\" Chester said in the months since the discovery things in Mabton and at the Silver Dollar have slowly returned to normal. Despite the national media having left Mabton, both Darigol and Jenkins said it's important for the local media to continue to follow the story. \"We do want to keep following it,\" Darigol said"}
{"Id":"1101163557057","Title":"School district will ask for bids again on two MSDR program cars","Author":"John Panni","Time":"3/11/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"Alderwood School District Superintendent Dr. Aaron Bones took the blame during a special meeting of the Alderwood School Board last night for the confusion that has arose over a series of car bids for the Migrant Student Data and Recruitment (MSDR) office, formerly known as the Migrant Student Record Systems (MSRS). The confusion over the car bids came about during the school board's February meeting, which Bones was unable to attend because of a personal commitment. At the February board meeting, the local directors opted to approve the purchase of a pair of Toyota Camry vehicles from a dealership in Yakima at a price of 20,195 per car. There were two significantly lower bids before the board at the February meeting, but the directors opted to go with the Camrys because the MSDR program wanted to have the vehicles available immediately for use. MSDR employees travel across the state tracking the educational progress of migrant students. Under a directive from the Office of Superintendent of Public Instruction (OSPI), MSDR Director Lee Campos was looking to have the school district purchase vehicles his department could lease. Under the terms of the agreement, the MSDR program would pay for all costs associated with leasing the vehicles from the school district. The Alderwood School District serves as the fiscal agency for the MSDR program. OSPI wanted the MSDR program to obtain new vehicles to cut down on the significant mileage checks that were being issued to the recruiting staff for utilizing their personal vehicles. MSDR has five recruiters who travel around the state. \"Upon review it appeared some confusion occurred,\" said Bones during Wednesday night's special board meeting. Bones said there was some confusion over the bid specifications for the vehicles. Bid specifications for the cars the district was seeking to buy included cruise control, fabric cloth seats, solar energy absorbing glass, a holder for sunglasses, perimeter anti theft alarm system and a center console armrest. Other specifications include general items such as air bags and a spare tire. Bones told the board after reviewing the process that was used with the vehicle bids his suggestion was to reject the offer the board approved at the February meeting and put the vehicles out to bid again with clearer specifications. \"We have got to clear up our bid specs,\" said Bones. The school district purchased late last year two vehicles already in possession of the MSDR program. The vehicles the migrant program currently have went unbidded, said Bones, because the district wasn't required to put the cars out to bid because the amount of the purchase didn't exceed 50,000. Bones explained that the board has to put out to bid any project or purchase that exceeds 50,000 to ensure public money is being used appropriately. The district had to put the latest pair of vehicles the migrant program is seeking to obtain out to bid because the amount exceeds the 50,000 limit when combined with the previous purchase of two vehicles. Alderwood School Board Director Fred Kilian, who was also unable to be in attendance at the February meeting, said last night he wanted to be sure the district puts the vehicles out to bid appropriately. \"I don't want it to get to the point where it looks like we are fixing the bids,\" said Kilian. \"We don't need chrome. We don't need chrome wheels. We just need something that drives up and down the road.\" Fellow board member Bill Wells said he voted to approve purchasing the Camrys because he was under the impression the MSDR program needed the vehicles immediately. Wells said it was his understanding the Camrys were available to pick-up off the Yakima lot within a few days while it would have taken a couple of months to get the cars from the other bidders"}
{"Id":"1101163557291","Title":"Hospice Talent Show bigger, better than ever","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"3/11/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"No need to stay at home this coming Friday night and watch the same old stuff on the boob tube. Instead, some real entertainment will be offered at the fifth annual Hospice Talent Show. Sponsored by the Alderwood High School leadership class, this year's talent show will feature everything from saxophone and piano performances, to clogging and jazz dance routines, to vocalists performing rap, as well as catchy standards and original compositions. \"We're hoping we have enough different kinds of acts that will interest all ages and all types of people,\" said Chelsea Durfey, who along with Andrea Phillips is chairing this year's talent show. Durfey, admittedly nervous about co-chairing such a large production, quickly adds that Friday night's talent show is a bargain for local residents, as well. \"Tickets are only 3 apiece,\" Durfey said. \"They'll be available at the door that night.\" As tradition dictates, this year's show will again be staged in the Alderwood High School auditorium. The curtain officially rises at 7 p.m. Proceeds generated from ticket sales will benefit the Lower Valley Hospice agency. Emcees for Friday night's show will be Alaina Hull and Isley Gonzalez. This year's organizers have opened the talent show, a competition really, to teachers and administrators in the school district. Several advanced through last Saturday's auditions and will be joining the student performers on stage Friday night. All of the young performers, ages 12 to 19, will be competing for trophies and cash prizes, with the top prize this year being 100. The adult performers will compete for a trophy. New to the talent show this year will be an art competition. Durfey said the entries will be showcased in a special display, with cash, trophies, ribbons and certificates being awarded to the top artists. \"Desiree Denton, the artist who's been involved with creating the city of Alderwood's statues for the last couple of years, will be our art judge,\" said Durfey. She said the judges for the on-stage performances will include M'liss Bierlink, Bill Flower, Charlene Baker, Catalina Espindola and Joel Stephens"}
{"Id":"1101163557525","Title":"Alderwood library gets thumbs-up from local voters","Author":"Jamie Smart","Time":"3/10/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Alderwood library patrons won't have to retire their Yakima Regional Library System cards after all. Tuesday, Alderwood voters approved the library annexation proposal with an overwhelming 77 percent \"yes\" vote. Friends of the Library, the group supporting the Alderwood library annexation into the regional system, are breathing a collective sigh of relief this morning. Had the vote gone the other way, city residents would not have been able to access the regional system. \"We are proud of the citizens of Alderwood who voted in favor of the annexation,\" said Pat Kezele, who shared the chairmanship of the friends group with Bill Flower. She said she was surprised at the low number of registered voters who actually voted on the matter. \"But I'm glad the ones who did vote were in favor of the annexation,\" Kezele said. According to the Yakima County Election Department, 673 of the city's 3,228 registered voters punched \"yes\" on their ballots, while 196 voters cast \"no\" votes. Most of the ballots cast in Tuesday's election were cast via absentee ballot, with only 128 persons showing up at the two Alderwood polling places. Alderwood voters cast 741 absentee ballots, which were mailed to voters in late February. \"I think Alderwood residents couldn't imagine their community without the library services of the current standard,\" Kezele said. \"I sure couldn't.\" \"The \"yes\" vote shows they have their priorities set on learning and continuing education,\" she added. \"It's wonderful,\" agreed John Saras, the long-time chair of the city-appointed Alderwood Public Library Board. \"But I wasn't worried,\" he said of Tuesday's vote. \"Our citizens know a good thing when they see it,\" he said. The voters' approval of the merging with the regional library system means Saras and his fellow board members will soon be out of a job. He said the five local library board members were appointed by the Alderwood mayor to serve as an advisory board. With the annexation, the Alderwood library will become part of the regional system in 2005. \"Our library will be governed by the regional board,\" Saras explained. Currently, Alderwood's Cloe Garrison and Melba Fujiura serve on the regional library board. \"We're thrilled that Alderwoodrs voted in support of the annexation,\" said Monica Weyhe, executive director of the regional library system. \"It shows the community's support for the library and its value,\" she said. \" \"It's great news,\" agreed Mike Rinz, Alderwood's interim city manager. \"My hats off to the Friends of the Library and the local library board for their work and support of the annexation,\" Rinz said. Kezele said the Friends of the Library began promoting the annexation vote immediately after the February Alderwood School District bond and levy vote. \"We didn't want to confuse voters with the two measures, especially when it came to increasing their property taxes,\" she explained. Tuesday's annexation vote will raise taxpayers' property taxes by nearly 50 per 1,000 assessed valuation. \"It's a win-win situation for the residents,\" said Alderwood Mayor Pro-tem George Greenway. Greenway said he had no doubts the voters would vote in favor of the annexation. \"The library is a pretty important asset to the community,\" he said. Greenway said even if the voters had chosen to turn down the annexation, he felt sure the city council wouldn't have abandoned the library. \"We would have found funds to retain the library services, somehow,\" Greenway said. \"But with the voters' approval, the transfer of library services to the regional system frees up funds for other city projects,\" he said"}
{"Id":"1101163558369","Title":"Open Mike","Author":"John Panni","Time":"3/10/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"No one would believe the last two weeks I've had. Words like painful, annoying, frustrating and down right irritating come to mind. But there is one place I have found comfort that I never thought I would, and that was in purchasing a new car. But to understand what led to my moment of repose we must go back in time to the fateful afternoon of my first-ever automobile accident. It was Feb. 27, 2:08 p.m.-I knew Leap Year would cause me nothing but problems. I was traveling back to the office from Washington Elementary School to check up on my goddaughter Devina's birthday party. For some reason, I took the long way back to the office. Call it fate. I took the route that put me on Seventh Street and Grant Avenue-my place of destiny. There I was, traveling along, unsuspecting of what was about to happen. Then, all of a sudden, right near the corner of the public library, within eyesight of my office, a motorist blew through a stop sign and before I knew it the front end of my car was nothing but mashed potatoes. I stepped out of the car very mad, which was an understatement, ready to swing, take someone's head off. But I quickly calmed down when I found out how upset the other person was. An officer came and took care of all the needed paperwork. The person who ran the stop sign really had nothing more than a large football sized dent in the front driver's side of her car. She was able to drive her car off while I had to wait for a tow truck to take home what was once a thriving part of the family. Tell me tow truck people shouldn't be ashamed of themselves for taking advantage of a situation. For a regular tow, the cost would have only been 35. But since my car had been in an accident, the cost rose to 135. I was already upset. But, the tow truck company made things even worse because I had to pay the 135 up front or my car would end up in storage, incurring additional fees. To cut to the chase of my story. We are required to have auto insurance in the state of Washington, but no one is required to reimburse us for all of our troubles. Instead, we get the run around, told we have to provide this or that. I don't want to provide this or that. I want what I had before, a working car. The insurance adjustor ended up totaling my car because it would cost 6,700 in repairs, but they are willing to give me 8,100 for the car. I know the car isn't worth anything following the accident, but it seems weird they are willing to pay me more than the actual repairs would cost. So, infuriated, I call up the Washington State Insurance Commissioners office in hopes of finding out how the wonderful laws of our state benefit me as an innocent bystander in all of this. The lady at the insurance commissioners office told me it is just state law designed by a group of overpaid judges (my words) to protect insurance companies. The law states an insurance company doesn't have to pay any more than the market value for a car. But my problem is, there I am on schedule to pay off my car on time. There wasn't anything wrong with this car, it ran beautifully, looked beautiful and was simply dependable. The lady told me the law is designed to not give a person in an accident more than they had before the accident. The problem I have with that is that I don't even have what I had before I had the accident. How is it fair that I have to pay the remaining balance on the damaged car and come up with money for a down payment for another car out of my pocket when I didn't cause the accident? The lady I talked to suggested I call a District Court judge to get more information about why the law is like that. I tried calling the District Court judges we have in Yakima County, but during their coffee breaks they were too busy to talk to somebody like me. When Wendy and I were preparing to go shopping for a new car I was traumatized. Shopping for a new car is like pulling teeth to me. We went down to Mid-Valley Chrysler in Grandview and they ended up making the entire situation bearable. I know what you are thinking, they were just trying to sell us a new car. Still, Manny Whitaker and Dan Martinez took very good care of us and made it relatively easy to get into a new car. Mid-Valley Chrysler became my fortress of comfort in this entire fiasco. I am in debt to those two guys, at least for the next few years. It is surprising to me that the easiest and most convenient part of all this was actually purchasing a new car, which Wendy loves by the way. The most annoying part of all this is that I have to keep paying insurance. It seems insurance isn't meant to help the small, working man. If it was, then how can I be in an accident that wasn't my fault and still come out on the short end"}
{"Id":"1101163558635","Title":"Grandview student selected for visit to nation's capital","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"3/9/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"GRANDVIEW - Rather than watch Fourth of July fireworks from her home, Grandview High School sophomore Ashley Lara will have the opportunity to see the sparklers light up the sky over the nation's capital this year. Lara has been selected to attend the Presidential Classroom Scholars Program in Washington D.C. July 3-10. \"In January of this year I served as a Senate Page at our state capital,\" said Lara. \"I have recently been accepted to the Presidential Classroom. I am very excited to further my knowledge and interest in politics.\" During the week-long program, Lara will interact with Washington insiders, including members of Congress, presidential appointees, senior military officials, top business leaders and journalists. She will also have the opportunity to observe the U.S. Congress in action. And, she will have the opportunity to debate current issues with her peers from the United States and abroad. Lara will also be able to visit the White House, which is by special invitation, the U.S. Department of State and Arlington National Cemetery. She will also be briefed by the Central Intelligence Agency, visit foreign embassies and participate in a mock presidential election. \"Our students meet and question the people who make and shape our nation's policies. No other program melds leadership, academics and current events in such an appealing combination,\" said Jack Buechner, former congressman and CEO and president of the Presidential Classroom Scholars program. \"Our students return home with a new perspective on American politics and the world.\" Since 1968, the Presidential Classroom Scholars program, a non-profit and non-partisan program, has hosted more than 100,000 of the best and brightest high school juniors and seniors from around the world. The sophomore is active at her high school, participating in DECA, Key Club, International Club, the varsity cheer squad and the varsity golf team. She is also involved in her church and is a church volunteer. She also has interests in politics, current events, history, sports, music and martial arts. She is looking for anyone interested in helping sponsor her trip to Washington D.C. Those interested can contact Lara, 882-8059"}
{"Id":"1101163559104","Title":"Dollar Tree open, sales are booming","Author":"Jamie Smart","Time":"3/9/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"Since opening March 1, Lower Valley shoppers have flocked to the Alderwood Dollar Tree on Yakima Valley Highway. To say the shoppers' response to the new store has been \"great\" would be an understatement, said Eric Switzer, who is overseeing the Alderwood store's opening. Switzer said opening sales exceeded the company's expectations. \"We're very excited about that,\" he said. \"We've been very busy,\" he said. The store, which is located in the former Staples building on Yakima Valley Highway, features name brand products for the entire family, all priced at 1. It also offers a variety of familiar items for the family car and the family pet. Everything from dog food to party goods are also priced at just a buck, Switzer said. The Alderwood store will celebrate its official grand opening March 12 through 14, with many special sales, said Switzer. Switzer said Michael Speights will be the store's manager once he completes training. The store employees 40 people and is open seven days a week. The Alderwood Dollar Tree is the national chain's fourth store in the region, with similar stores located in Yakima, Richland and Kennewick. The Dollar Tree company boasts 2,500 stores across the United States"}
{"Id":"1101163559338","Title":"Light pole fruit being dressed up by G'view merchant","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"3/9/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"GRANDVIEW - Driving into Grandview along Wine Country Road there are many sights to take in, from the green grass that runs along either side of the pathway to the light posts that line the street. However, for the past few months something has been missing. Approximately five years ago the City of Grandview went through the work of putting up giant metal fruit cutouts on each of the light posts that runs from one end of Wine Country Road to the other. For the past few months these four-foot-high pieces of fruit have been missing. Mike Carpenter, Grandview parks and recreation director, said after having the fruit up on the poles exposed to the elements for several years, the weather began to take its toll. That's when the decision was made to take the metal fruit cutouts down from the light poles, have them sandblasted and get them ready to be repainted. Carpenter said when it came time to find someone to work on repainting the fruit, which includes green and red apples, green and purple grape varieties, as well as both Bing and Rainier cherries, the city looked to Jeff Dixon of Auto Mania. Carpenter explained that Dixon helped with the project when it was originally done several years before. Carpenter said the city purchased approximately 500 in paints and supplies and Dixon has donated his time painting the fruit during off hours at his shop. Dixon said when he originally worked on the fruit cutouts all he did was finish them up with a few highlights and a clear coat. This time around Dixon is doing all of the painting himself. When Dixon received the 41 fruit cutouts they had been completely sandblasted, leaving him to come up with paint designs for each of the different fruit varieties. Dixon said he has been working on painting the pieces since November, spending his spare time getting the fruit ready to be put back up on the light poles. When it comes to painting each of the pieces, Dixon said he takes it one variety at a time. He explained that first he took two of the apples, painted one red and one green. Then he worked to make templates for each, so that all of the red and green apples he painted would look similar. Then he went to work actually painting the front and back of each of the apple cutouts. Dixon said it took him about seven and half hours to finish the remaining apples once the first two were created. \"They're just gorgeous,\" Carpenter said of the apples Dixon has already painted. \"They look like they are ready to be eaten.\" Dixon said he hopes to have all of the fruit painted and ready to be rehung in about a month, just in time for spring. Carpenter said when the pieces are completed they will be returned to their place along the Wine Country Road corridor. He noted that five of the pieces are used as decorations around the stage at the fairgrounds in Grandview. Dixon, who has operated Auto Mania in Grandview since 1985, said he decided to lend a helping hand with the project because he feels it's important that businesses give something back. \"A business should be able to give back to the community,\" Dixon said. . Ellie Olmsen can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or e-mail her at eOlmsen@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101163573713","Title":"Athletic advisory council works to remedy gray areas in AHS code","Author":"Jamie Smart","Time":"3/9/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"Hoping to ease parental concerns about so-called gray areas in the Alderwood School District athletic code, the district's Athletic Advisory Council met Monday night to clearly define violation investigation and grievance procedures. In addition to beefing up the code, which already prohibits the use of alcohol, tobacco and drugs by student-athletes, the advisory council strived to eliminate confusion about how those students who show up at events where illegal substances are present, but who claim not to have used any of those substances, are treated. It was the consensus of the council that any student-athlete present at such an event, even though not using an illegal substance, will be punished. The council added a line to the code which firmly declares there will be no exceptions to the association and/or attendance rule, except at the grievance level, where students and parents can appeal any action taken by the athletic review board. The advisory council also reviewed the code's investigation and appeals procedures, outlining how the investigation process would be conducted. The council cleaned up language regarding how parents would be contacted regarding violations by their children. All the information gathered in cases of suspected violations will include written statements by witnesses and the accused students, along with police reports as available, said Dennis Birr, Alderwood High School principal. Birr said the athletic director and high school assistant principal will interview the athletes in question, using a standard set of questions to be established for each incident. The athlete in question will be required to provide a signed written statement, according to the council's revised investigation procedure. In addition, parents will be immediately contacted following the investigation by phone. And, if a violation has occurred, an official letter from the school athletic office will be mailed home with the discipline indicated, Birr explained. Birr said at that point parents may request an informal conference with the athletic director and may begin the grievance process, if they so wish. The advisory council has also added a level of education to the athletic code as a part of the first level of penalties, in addition to the option of chemical use assessment, explained Birr. \"Some parents have felt that assessment as a mandatory portion of the discipline code is too harsh. They've urged the council to consider an educational step before assessment is required,\" he explained. Called insight education, the preventative education portion of the student's punishment would be handled by an in-house program, said John Hughes, the district's safety director. If adopted by the Alderwood School Board as new policy, the insight program would also require parental participation, explained Hughes. He suggested the education program might be broken into four sessions in order for students to be educated about the dangers of their illegal conduct. \"If needed, and definitely at the cases of second violations, assessment would be required under the changes being advanced by the advisory council,\" Hughes explained. The advisory council will review its proposed changes and revisions in April before presenting its recommendations to the Alderwood School Board at the June board meeting"}
{"Id":"1101163574010","Title":"Obituaries","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"3/8/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"CLEVELAND LEE MITCHELL CLEVELAND LEE MITCHELL Cleveland Lee Cleve Mitchell, 73, long-time Yakima Valley resident, died Friday, March 5, 2004, at Parkside Care Center in Union Gap. He was born Oct. 22, 1930 in Lubbock, Texas, the son of Sadie (Cates) and Donald Mitchell. He worked in the oil fields and was a beekeeper, pig farmer, carpenter and owner of a dairy farm, and managed Sun Rise Resort in Copalis Beach. He is survived by his children, Rod Mitchell (Karen) of Yakima, Brenda Shelton of Selah, Karen Hatch of McMinnville, Ore., Tim Mitchell of Wapato and Barbara Mason (Loffer) of Cornelius, Ore.; 13 grandchildren; 10 great-grandchildren; five siblings, Jeanie Dalrymple (John) of Yakima, Clarence Riggins of Parker, Jean Alexander of Alderwood, Mary Philip (Gil) of California and Martha Wells of Texas; and one uncle, Bruce Cates of Baja, Calif. He was preceded in death by his parents; his wife, Barbara; one daughter, Nelda; and one grandson, Mathew Differding. Viewing and visitation will be held Monday, March 8, 2004, from 10 a.m. to 8 p.m., and Tuesday, March 9, 2004, from 8 a.m. to 1 p.m., at Wells Funeral Home, Alderwood. Graveside funeral services will be held March 9, 2004, at 2 p.m. at Lower Valley Memorial Gardens in Alderwood. ANTONIO URRUTIA Antonio Tony Urrutia, 68, of Alderwood passed away Friday, March 5, 2004, at his home in Alderwood. He was born Feb. 13, 1936 to Macedonio and Benita (Rodriguez) Urrutia in Maxwell, Texas. He received his education in Alderwood, graduating with the class of 1954. On March 2, 1957 he married Frances Padilla in Alderwood. Following their marriage they moved to Seattle, where Tony worked for Boeing for one year. Later moving to Alderwood, Tony worked construction on various dams on the Columbia River and he worked for a short time at Hanford. He also worked for Mountain States Construction for several years. Tony owned a cherry orchard on Heffron Road and a 20-acre farm on Snipes Pump Road, where he farmed various produce over the years and Concord grapes. He was a member of St. Joseph Catholic Church, Yakima Carpenters Local Union, Church Advisory Board, Hospital Board and Cemetery Board. Tony cherished spending time with his family, camping and going to the beach, watching them participate in various school activities, supporting them in all their endeavors, especially basketball. He also took special pride watching his son and son-in-law coach basketball and football. His latest joy was seeing his granddaughter, Stephanie, coach at the college level. He is survived by his wife of 47 years, Frances Urrutia of Alderwood; one son, Steve Urrutia and wife, Julie, of Alderwood; two daughters, Nora Urrutia of Outlook and MaryAnn Potter and husband, Ken, of Portland, Ore.; six grandchildren, Anthony Wells, Stephanie Urrutia, Jenna Urrutia, Kerri Urrutia, Samantha Potter and Tyler Potter; and twin great-grandchildren, Emily Wells and Anthony Wells II. He is also survived by four brothers, John Urrutia, Art Urrutia, both of Seattle, Mac Urrutia of Richland and Bence Urrutia of Auburn; and five sisters, Alice Maltos of Granger, Theresa Martinez, Mary Cruz, Lupe Gutierrez and Eva Martinez, all of Grandview. He was preceded in death by his parents; and one infant sister, Isabel. Viewing and visitation will be held Monday, March 8, 2004, from 4 to 8 p.m. with a Rosary to be held at 6 p.m. at Wells Funeral Home, Alderwood. Mass of Christian Burial will be held Tuesday, March 9, 2004, at 10 a.m. at St. Joseph Catholic Church, Alderwood, with burial to follow at Alderwood Cemetery, under the direction of Wells Funeral Home, Alderwood. In lieu of flowers, those wishing to honor Tony s memory may contribute to St. Joseph Catholic Church"}
{"Id":"1101163574307","Title":"Briefs","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"3/8/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"1-Column 3-5 briefly County noxious weed board plans review of policies YAKIMA - The annual meeting of the Yakima County Noxious Weed Board will be held Tuesday, March 9, in the Commissioner's Hearing Room in the basement of the Yakima County Courthouse, 128 North 2nd St., Yakima. On the board's 7 p.m. agenda will be the adoption of the 2004 county weed policy and the announcement of the current noxious weed list. A public hearing is also scheduled to preview the board's 2004 plan of operation. The public is encouraged to attend and address their concerns about weed problems. School Board to act on bond sale resolution The Alderwood School Board will hold a special meeting Wednesday, March 10, in order to act on a resolution regarding the sale of bonds to be used for the construction of the district's new middle school. The school board will meet at 6 p.m. at the office of instruction and learning, in the Denny Blaine building, 810 E. Custer Ave. The board is also expected to sign a purchase agreement with Seattle Northwest Securities to handle the bond sale. Prior to its Wednesday board meeting, the board will meet with the Harrison Middle School staff on Tuesday, March 9, at 5 p.m., for dinner and a tour of the middle school. Jr. Indelook women to meet The Jr. Indelook Club will meet Wednesday, March 10, at the home of Marjorie Cullen at 7 p.m. The program for the evening will be a presentation by an exchange student, according to Ella Peebles, a club spokesperson. Lucille Cullen will be co-hostess for the gathering. Grandview's R.E. Powell Museum opens March 16 GRANDVIEW - The R.E. Powell Museum will open for the 2004 season Tuesday, March 16, at 2 p.m. The museum, located next the Bleyhl Community Library, 313 Division St., features exhibits of Native American artifacts, war memorabilia, Grandview schools alumni photographs and a vast array of other Grandview historical items. To arrange for a group tour call the Grandview Parks and Recreation Department at 882-9219. Weather spotter training offered YAKIMA - Severe weather conditions, such as recent hail storms and tornadoes, are likely to hit the Yakima Valley again this year. To help it detect unusual weather patterns, the National Weather Service is hosting training for rural area Skywarn Storm Spotters. Amateur weather watchers are being encouraged to attend a special meteorologist training meeting to be held in Yakima Thursday, April 15. The training will be held at Yakima County's North First Street Conference Room, located in the former Pizza Hut building, at 7 p.m. No pre-registration is required. Trained storm spotters will report directly to the Pendleton weather office, in order for it to issue timely warnings to protect lives and property. For more information go to www.wrh.noaa.gov/pendleton"}
{"Id":"1101163574541","Title":"Entertainment Briefs","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"3/5/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"1-Column Renowned doctor to speak about healing March 26 YAKIMA - A message of hope and healing from renowned author and physician Dr. Bernie Siegel will be presented at the Yakima Capitol Theatre Friday, March 26. Siegel's 7 p.m. presentation, \"The Art of Healing,\" has been described as dynamic, positive and upbeat. His talk is designed to inspire listeners, as well as help them reflect on living life more fully, no matter what the challenges are. Tickets are priced at 10 and are currently available at the Capitol Theatre box office. Proceeds from ticket sales will benefit cancer patients in Yakima. As a physician who has cared for and counseled thousands of people with life-threatening illnesses, Siegel embraces a philosophy of living, and dying, that stands at what some describe the forefront of medicine. He is a best selling author of six books. Spilyay Indian Market returnsto Legends Casino TOPPENISH - The 40th annual Spilyay Indian Market returns to Toppenish's Legends Casino Saturday and Sunday, March 13-14. The doors to the public will open at 10 a.m. The public is encouraged to view a unique showcase of American Indian arts and crafts. Many of the items will be offered for sale. The Native American fair will include an Indian baby and toddler fashion show on Saturday, at 1:30 p.m. The \"Beloved Children\" dancers of White Swan will perform that day at 3 and 5 p.m. Art awards will be presented at 7 p.m. Saturday evening, with the fair closing at 8 p.m. Sunday's program will begin with a prayer song at 10:15 a.m. At 12:30 p.m. that day, Rocco Clark's Indian dancers will perform, to be followed by a hand drum contest. Doors to the fair will close at 4 p.m. Heartstrings back in concert Sunday, March 14 GRANDVIEW - The Lower Alderwood Valley Gospel singing group \"Heartstrings\" is back in concert Sunday, March 14, at the Grandview Christian Church. All Lower Valley residents are invited to attend the 6 p.m. concert at the church, located at 310 Euclid Ave. A recently released CD, as well as cassettes, will be on sale that evening, as well. Kids chess setsto be displayedat G dale museum GOLDENDALE - A special opening reception will be held Saturday, March 20, for the young artists who created chess sets that will be displayed at the Maryhill Museum through the first of July. From March 15 through July 4, the Goldendale area museum will exhibit chess sets created by children from Washington and Oregon. The March 20 reception, scheduled for 1 to 5 p.m., will include opportunities to learn how to play chess, as well as a live performance by the Goldendale High School jazz band. Teams of students joined forces to create some of the chess sets, while others show the unmistakable hand of an individual. \"World cultures and individuals from such diverse art movements as Dada, Surealism and Bauhaus Internationalism have interpreted chess pieces according to their aesthetic concepts,\" said Courtney Spousta, curator of educational exhibits at the museum. \"These students are helping to keep the tradition going.\" Maryhill Museum, a castle-like mansion overlooking the Columbia River, is open 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. daily. The Maryhill Cafe offers beverages, deli food and desserts to visitors. General admission prices to the museum are 7 for adults, 6 for senior citizens and 2 for children. Yakima Family Theatre Series presents Matilda in sign language next Thursday YAKIMA - The Allied Arts Council of Yakima Valley will present the Cleveland Signstage Theater's production of Matilda Thursday, March 11, at the Allied Arts Center, 5000 W. Lincoln Ave., Yakima. Tickets for the 7 p.m. performance are 10 for adults and 8 for children and senior citizens. Season tickets are available at the cost of 27 for adults and 21 for children and seniors. The play, presented in both English and American sign language, is the first of the Allied Arts Council's 21st annual Family Theater Series. Two additional productions in the Family Theater Series are the ArtsPowers National Touring Theater's Anne of Green Gables on April 6, and the Missoula Children's Theatre's The Frog Prince on May 22. Auditions for the Missoula Theatre production for youngsters, ages 5-18, will be held Monday, May 17, at 4 p.m. at the Yakima Allied Arts Center. Performance times will be at 3 and 7 p.m. Family Theatre Series tickets are on sale at the Allied Arts Council office by calling (509) 966-0930"}
{"Id":"1101163574775","Title":"Andean sound coming to Alderwood March 14","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"3/5/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"Alborada, a band with a decided Andean flavor, will be on the stage of the Alderwood High School auditorium for a Latin music concert Sunday, March 14, at 3 p.m. Tickets are still available for the concert, which is the third in the 2003-04 series, hosted by the Lower Valley Community Concert Association. Milo Batista and his wife, Lourdes, and children, Jhoanna and Paul, who make-up the group, are skilled in playing more than 30 different instruments from Central and South America. In addition to its Sunday concert, Alborada will present a outreach musical program to local high school and junior high music students Monday, March 15, at Alderwood High School. The 10 a.m. outreach program is sponsored by the Grandview Education Association. Individual tickets for Sunday's concert will be on sale at the door at the cost of 25. Series tickets will also be available at the door for 40 for adults and 15 for students. Series tickets will allow tickets holders to attend the final three season performances of Overholt and Velta on May 4 and Scott Kirby on May 23"}
{"Id":"1101163575072","Title":"Forum","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"3/5/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"1-Column Library a place you can count on Why is the Alderwood Public Library important to me? It is one of the most important places in Alderwood. Other kids and I can go there because I can find information I need for school. I can also check out a book or video and bring it home. If there is information in an Encyclopedia I cannot check it out but I can make a copy. Other useful things the library has are computers and lessons, videos, newspapers from many places, puzzles and summer programs. It's also a safe place. I know the library is a place I can count on. /s/ Oscar Hernandez, sixth grader, Chief Kamiakin Elementary School, Alderwood Thought of no library frightening The Alderwood City Council has chosen to fund only half of its normal contractual amount with the Yakima County Regional Library System for the running of our local library this year, 2004. It is now imperative that the citizens of Alderwood and all city patrons of the Alderwood library take issue with this regressive decision by the Council, and VOTE in favor of forming a library district. With enough yes votes, the regional library system will be in charge and hopefully the many maintenance improvements to the building that have been needed for years will be accomplished. At this writing, there are no contingency plans to keep the library open in 2005, unless this library district proposal receives a majority favorable vote on March 9 with the poll vote and the returned mail-in ballots. Please try to visualize what a city the size of Alderwood, or in fact any city, would be without a library! It is incomprehensible and just plain frightening. /s/ Cloe Garrison, Alderwood Security liaison will be missed I'm writing this on behalf of Mr. Partida, the security liaison at Harrison Middle School. Recently, Mr. Partida was transferred from Harrison to Outlook Elementary School. I would like to tell you how much of a helpful friend and adult he was to Harrison Middle School. Mr. Partida is a fun person. He is like a student himself...just a little older. He is friendly with everyone. He is funny, too. He always has the best jokes. He always brightens someone's day. Also, Mr. Partida did his job. He solved many conflicts within the school. He is someone you can turn to when you have witnessed or have been involved in an accident. He is the kind of person you can trust and know a conflict will be handled. Mr. Partida will be missed very much by students and staff. We hope his time at Outlook goes well. /s/ Thailee L. Paxon, Harrison Middle School student Must see movie I would like to strongly recommend \"The Passion of Christ.\" I went to see it and it was the best movie I have ever seen. When I left the theater, I was thinking hard. I hope that everyone will go and watch this movie. You will never think of Easter the same way again. /s/ Robin Seifert, Prosser"}
{"Id":"1101163575307","Title":"Grandview fire chief attends national academy","Author":"Melissa Browning","Time":"3/5/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"Ever since 31-year-old Charles Damron became the Grandview Fire Chief he has been applying to attend classes at the National Fire Academy in Emmitsburg, Md. Last year, he was accepted to attend the Volunteer Incentive Program training class, which he attended last week. The National Fire Academy offers classes in 10 different areas that are geared toward volunteer fire departments and combination paid and volunteer fire departments. The classes for volunteer or combined departments are held three times a year. The Grandview Fire Department, with 26 volunteers and two paid staff, is a combination department. Damron was accepted to attend the leadership and administration class at the national academy. As a student of the National Fire Academy, Damron learned recruitment techniques, skills to keep and maintain a volunteer base, planning, human resources and managerial skills. The academy wasn't limited to fire departments in smaller communities. Damron said one of his instructors was from an all-volunteer fire department in a Minnesota community of 80,000 people. That department is in a state that has a state run retirement system, making it possible for an all-volunteer department. Damron explained that most of his training was learning how to meet the needs of volunteers and helping them better be able to meet the needs of the community. Courses offered by the Volunteer Incentive Program include challenges for local training officers, command and control of incident operations, community education leadership, fire cause determination, advanced safety operations and management and presenting effective public education programs. \"I'm hoping over the next few years to take all the classes at the fire academy,\" said the Alderwood native. \"It's a place to learn new ideas and it's also a place to network with different people from across the country.\" Damron has been a paid firefighter with the Grandview Fire Department since 1995. He became captain in 1998 and in 2000 was hired as the fire chief. Attending the National Fire Academy, which is run by the Federal Emergency Management Agency, cost the city of Grandview a minimal amount of money, according to Damron. Those accepted to attend the academy are provided a travel stipend and stay in housing for the six days of training. \"All we have to pay for is meals,\" he said"}
{"Id":"1101163575541","Title":"New school property eventually to be annexed into city limits","Author":"John Panni","Time":"3/5/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"Yakima County Commissioner Jesse Palacios has always been one for forming partnerships, even during his days as mayor of Grandview. So when the Alderwood School District passed a bond/levy this past February that will allow for the construction of a new school in the northeast area outside of Alderwood, Palacios saw an opportunity he couldn't resist. Palacios has been spearheading an effort for the past several months to partner with the City of Alderwood to help upgrade the area in the northeast section of town around Washout and Cemetery roads. Palacios' plan calls for residents in the area, where there is between 75 and 80 homes, to hook-up to City of Alderwood utilities, eventually annexing into the city. Palacios asked for a meeting with City of Alderwood and Alderwood School District officials last Friday to see what sort of partnership the three entities could form to help make improvements the county commissioner has been aiming for in the area to the northeast of Alderwood. Where the school district fits into Palacios' plans is that with the construction of a new middle school, the county commissioner is hoping the school district will help with some of the expenses of extending water lines out to residents in the area. The school district purchased 56 acres for 360,000 to construct a new school, in the area of Washout and Van Belle roads. The property sits just outside of the city limits near Sheller Road. Last Friday's meeting helped clear up some issues for Alderwood School District officials. One of the reasons for the meeting was Mayor Rex Luthor spoke with Alderwood School District Superintendent Dr. Aaron Bones about some concerns he had with the property the district purchased, which is entirely in Yakima County. Executive Director of Finance Dave Plesha said the mayor was concerned about whether the property fell in the Urban Growth Area of the city. Plesha said Friday's meeting was a productive one, as the school district learned the city will be willing to connect utilities for the new middle school that will be constructed by 2006. Plesha said the school district will incur a slightly higher rate for water and sewage disposal as a result of being outside of city limits. Braven Bendzak, director of facilities for the Alderwood School District, said the city will connect the new district school to its utilities through an outside utilities agreement. Through the city allowing the school district to utilize its wastewater treatment facilities, the property on which the new school is to be built will eventually be annexed into the city, said Bendzak. Bendzak also said all but 15.8 acres of the 56 acres of property the district purchased falls within the city's Urban Growth Area. Bendzak also said the city is talking with the school district about possibly placing a new water well on the school district property. The city currently operates a well on school district property, alongside the high school football field. Plesha said while most cities have their schools within city limits, the local school district did nothing out of the ordinary by purchasing property in the county. Plesha said Outlook Elementary School is outside of the city. Plesha also added when the property for Pioneer Elementary School was purchased it was also outside of city limits. Bendzak said during Friday's meeting, county officials talked about partnering with the school district for improvement work they are looking at doing in the areas of Beckner and McClain roads. Both Plesha and Bendzak said the school district is open to any sort of partnership with either the city or the county and will be exploring different options down the road. \"We want to make sure what we are trying to do with this new school is what the city and the county is trying to do,\" said Bendzak. \"It is going to be a partnership with everybody involved.\" Palacios said he is hoping a partnership can be formed between the three entities to provide a better way of life for people living in that area. Palacios said people there are running a health risk because of the lack of utility services, such as sewer and water. Palacios said there have been reports in some areas in the northeast section of town that septic flow is coming up out of the ground. Palacios said in the next few weeks there will be another meeting of the different groups involved in the project. Palacios said the next meeting will involve engineers with the project, which he views as a step in the right direction. \"It will be a really neat thing if we can bring some improvement into that area,\" said Palacios"}
{"Id":"1101163575775","Title":"Senate honors Walter George","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"3/4/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"OLYMPIA - The Washington State Senate honored Alderwood water conservationist Walter George yesterday (Wednesday) for his work on water issues on behalf of the people of the Yakima Valley. George, who retires this year after nearly 26 years as an unpaid district supervisor for the Yakima Conservation District, was honored by the passage of Senate Resolution 8698, which praises him for his \"extraordinary volunteer efforts and achievements.\" Sen. Jim Honeyford of Alderwood, who sponsored the resolution, said it is important to recognize George for his many contributions to the Yakima Valley. \"This year, Walt is going to retire from the conservation district,\" said the Alderwood Republican. \"He is going to be sorely missed. It's special to honor him and say thank you for all his service.\" George served as the chairman of the Water Quality Committee for Yakima County and as chairman of the Water Quality Committee for the Washington Association of Conservation Districts. A World War II veteran, George continues to farm on 40 acres east of Alderwood, growing corn and native spearmint. Following the passage of his resolution, George told the state senators about his work on the Yakima Conservation District. \"This doesn't happen just with one person,\" George said. \"A little bit of leadership from me, but I had a board that supported me, and citizens - with a little technical help and some cost share - did this job. \"If the citizens and the farmers in my area hadn't been willing to cooperate and do the job, it would have never happened. Thank you all. This is a great honor,\" George said. In addition to his other volunteer activities, George served as the director of the Diamond Fruit Growers board, Supervisor of Drainage District #19, chairman of the Water Quality Committee for the Washington Association of Conservation Districts, and as area president for the South Central Area for the Water Quality Committee. Born in Elberta, Ala. on August 20th, 1924, George has resided in the Alderwood area since 1932. He started farming with his father and brothers in 1946. In addition to the countless years of service to his community, George honorably served his country in the armed services, fighting in the Battle of the Bulge, and attaining the rank of Sergeant Major. He also served 30 years of active service in the United States Army Reserve. He continues to serve his country as the commander of American Legion, Post 73, and is an active member of Sunnyview VFW Post #3482 in Alderwood. This past winter, he and his wife Betty served as the grand marshals of the 15th annual Country Christmas Lighted Farm Implement Parade for their contributions to the community"}
{"Id":"1101163576010","Title":"Car purchases still under review","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"3/4/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"The purchase of two Toyotas for the Migrant Student Record Systems (MSRS) program is still on hold, according to Alderwood School District Superintendent Dr. Aaron Bones. Currently, the purchase of the two vehicles, which was approved by the Alderwood School Board last week, is under review by the state auditor and the Alderwood School District legal council. \"We just today (Wednesday) spent an hour on it with legal counsel,\" said Bones. Called into question was the purchase of two Toyotas, although the price of the vehicles were not the lowest bid in the bid process. The bid from Toyota of Yakima was 20,195 per vehicle. The price quoted to the school district for comparable Fords from Tom Denchel Ford was 14,212 each. Harris Ford of Lynwood submitted a bid for 13,429 for Ford made vehicles. \"There's not going to be any movement on this,\" said Bones, who anticipates putting a special line item in the March 10 school board meeting to discuss the purchase of the vehicles. Bones said the school board will have to be updated on the issues, which has the school district purchasing the vehicles on behalf of the MSRS, a grant-funded program. If a hold had not been placed on the vehicle purchase, the two new vehicles would have been delivered earlier this week"}
{"Id":"1101163590416","Title":"Grandview City Council Briefs","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"3/3/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"1-Column Surplus property approved for sale GRANDVIEW - Grandview City Council members approved a list of items to be surplused. The list includes items from both the Public Works and the Grandview Police departments. Among those items approved for sale at auction are six used vehicle batteries, a Chevy panel van, three truck tool boxes, a wide array of car stereos, two patrol cars and an animal control vehicle. Grandview Police Chief Dave Charvet said the two patrol cars being surplused have already been replaced and the new animal control vehicle should arrive in the next couple of weeks. City Administrator Jim Sewell said the vehicles were scheduled for replacement this year. New stop signto be erected GRANDVIEW - A new stop sign will be erected at the intersection of Concord Avenue with East and West Concord Avenues following a decision made by Grandview City Council members Monday night. Grandview Police Chief Dave Charvet told council members he has received quite a few complaints from that neighborhood of cars speeding through the area. He said it was neighborhood residents who suggested a stop sign be placed at the intersection to help slow down traffic. The intersection is currently unsigned. City joins county efforts to update Growth Management Act requirements GRANDVIEW - Grandview City Council members voted Monday night to join efforts with Yakima County to update the city's Critical Area Ordinance and Shoreline Master Program, both of which are Growth Management Act requirements. City Clerk Anita Palacios explained that the county has received state grant funding and is offering to take a regional approach to the two requirements. Council approves comprehensive plan amendment and rezone GRANDVIEW - Grandview City Council members approved a request made by Dan and Harriet Alexander to amend the city's Comprehensive Plan to change the future land use designation of approximately 13 acres located off of Wine Country Road near the east entrance into Grandview. The 13 acres is located in two parcels, both of which are currently zoned agriculture with a future land use designation of residential. The rezone request was to change the future land use designation of the north parcel to commercial and the other parcel to single family residential. After approval by Grandview City Council the request will be forwarded to the Washington State Growth Management Division for a 60-day review. Poteet honored for years of serviceto community GRANDVIEW - Grandview City Council members recognized police dispatcher Sue Poteet, who recently retired from the Grandview Police Department. Poteet has worked full-time at the department since January 1980 and just recently retired. Poteet told Mayor Mike Bren that upon retiring she plans on traveling and visiting relatives"}
{"Id":"1101163592729","Title":"Forum","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"3/3/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"1-Column Vote YES on library annexation I am writing this letter to express my thoughts about the Alderwood library. We live in the county, so I can't vote on this. If I could, I would vote yes to annex with the Yakima Regional Library. I go to the Alderwood library on a regular basis, and I love to go. The staff members are very nice. It is a great joy to go to the Alderwood library. It would sadden me greatly if it closed! According to the information I have read, people who live in the county have been paying the library levy rate since 2003. I can't remember voting on it. If we who live in the county have been paying (I am happy to pay to have the library), why haven't the people in the city been paying? I urge the people in the city of Alderwood to vote a huge YES. Linda L. Williams, Alderwood Library important There are many reasons why the library is important to me. There are almost as many reasons as there are books in the library. One reason is that they have lots of books on different topics. There are books on animals, fairy tales, people and history. Another reason is their summer reading program. In this program you get little prizes like bookmarks, fun bags and stickers. Finally, they don't just have books. They have videos and books on tape. Hence, I think the library is important to me because they have lots of books, a good summer reading program and lots more. /s/ Marielle Abbott, Chief Kamiakin Elementary School fifth grader, Alderwood Security liaison will be missed I would like to take this opportunity to thank Mr. Fidel Partida, security liaison for the Alderwood School District, for his outstanding commitment to the safety and welfare of the students, staff and parents at Harrison Middle School. Mr. Partida has been instrumental in curbing gang activity, violence and drugs at Harrison Middle School. He is one of Alderwood's finest role models for our youths. Recently, Mr. Partida was transferred to Outlook Elementary School. I know Mr. Partida will be an asset to the Outlook community and will be instrumental in curtailing the growing concerns of gang activity in Outlook. Mr. Partida, your presence will truly be missed by students, staff and parents at Harrison Middle School. Outlook, you are gaining one of our finest! /s/ Cheryl Engel, Harrison Middle School teacher, Alderwood"}
{"Id":"1101163594760","Title":"Beyond The Norm-Mel","Author":"Melissa Browning","Time":"3/3/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"For nearly a week I have been mulling over a court's recent decision that uphold a decision to rescind a college scholarship that was awarded to Joshua Davey, a student who was awarded the Promise Scholarship five years ago. I hear the \"separation of church and state argument\" loud and clear, but at the same time I wonder how valid of an argument that really is. It seems that the \"state\" likes to use that excuse whenever it is convenient, but is there really a separation of church and state? Davey, a student at Northwest College in Kirkland, was awarded a 1,125 scholarship, designed to provide financial assistance to students in Washington state from low and middle income families. The students have to have high academic credentials and be enrolled in a public or private post-secondary school within the state. Davey's scholarship was taken away because he was majoring in pastoral ministries and business management, (the pastoral ministries being the issue.) I find it interesting that at a time when education is pushed as the way for higher wages and a way to better yourself, the state would be picky and basically say, \"We really think it is important for you to go to school. We believe based on your academics and social status you are worthy of this token to reward you for your hard work.\" Just to strip it away a few days later. Washington is one of more than 30 states that doesn't give scholarships to those studying ministry. When will that change? Will it one day be anyone with a religious affiliation who attends college may potentially be entering the ministry, and therefore be excluded from state scholarships? What about political offices? We generally elect people we feel are qualified and have our best interest in mind. Most of them have religious backgrounds. Is that a conflict of separation of church and state? I doubt that they shut off any religious teachings they have had when making a decision on how the state is run. In a way, isn't their service to the state a ministry? When someone with religious background comforts a co-worker who just lost a parent, isn't that ministry? When co-workers with church backgrounds decide to offer help to a needy family, could that also be considered ministry? Maybe we have more opportunities to minister in our communities than we realize. Should it diminish our opportunity for education? . Melissa Browning can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or e-mail mbrowning@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101163594994","Title":"Obituaries","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"3/3/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"PAID OBITUARY LUCIO C. Martinez Lucio Julio C. Martinez, 47, of Alderwood passed away Sunday, Feb. 29, 2004, in Seattle. He was born Sept. 5, 1956 in Mexico to Luis and Crispina (Mendoza) Martinez. Lucio received his education in Mexico, later moving to the Yakima Valley. On July 5, 1980 he married Martha Barrios in Granger. They made their home in Granger. Lucio worked as a farm laborer. In 1983 they moved to Alderwood, where Julio worked as a self-employed truck driver, hauling for various farmers in the Valley. Lucio enjoyed fishing and watching sporting events, including the University of Washington Huskies and the Seattle Mariners. He cherished time spent with his children, a real family man, a provider and protector. Lucio attended St. Joseph Catholic Church in Alderwood. He is survived by his wife of 23 years, Martha Martinez of Alderwood; three daughters, Lupe Loera and husband, Fred, of Alderwood, Maria Ramirez and husband, Joel, of Union Gap and Doralee Martinez of Renton; two sons, Luis Martinez and wife, Lorenna, of Yakima and Andres Martinez of Alderwood; and nine grandchildren. He is also survived by his mother, Crispina Martinez of Phoenix, Ariz.; and two brothers, Efrin Martinez of El Paso, Texas and Leodegario Martinez of Phoenix. He was preceded in death by his father, Luis Martinez. Viewing and visitation will be held Thursday, March 4, 2004, from 1 to 8 p.m. with a Rosary to be held at 6 p.m. at Wells Funeral Home, Alderwood. Funeral services will be held Friday, March 5, 2004, at 10 a.m. at St. Joseph Catholic Church, Alderwood, with burial to follow at Lower Valley Memorial Gardens, Alderwood. Wells Funeral Home is in charge of arrangements"}
{"Id":"1101163595229","Title":"Sign-ups required for pesticide dump day","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"3/2/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"Unused bags of weed killers. How do you dispose of them? Pesticide collection sites in Prosser, Toppenish and Yakima will be accepting old and unusable pesticides for disposal, according Rod Baker of the Washington State Department of Agriculture. Residents, farmers, business owners and public agencies will be able to dispose of old or unusable agricultural and commercial grade pesticides without paying hazardous waste disposal fees, according to Baker. A disposal site will be open in Yakima April 20, Toppenish April 21 and Prosser April 22. Organizers have not yet determined where the Toppenish drop-off site will be, but those in the Yakima area will be able to drop off pesticides at the Terrace Heights landfill. The WSU extension station in Prosser will be used as a drop-off site for Lower Valley residents. Those wanting to participate in the free service need to sign up by March 8, according to Baker. Walk-in customers will not be served. Pesticides that will be accepted by the WSDA include insecticides, herbicides, fungicides, rodenticides and chemicals that kill, repel or prevent unwanted pests. Empty containers and other waste such as fertilizer, motor oil and household hazardous waste will not be accepted. According to Baker, the WSDA will provide large clear plastic bags for participants who have containers or bags that are leaking. \"We even have plastic bags for drums,\" he said. \"We're getting stuff that's decades old. Metal containers get old and will corrode.\" Since the program started in 1988, about 1.5 million pounds of pesticides have been collected across Washington state. Baker described the pesticide program, which sets up collection sites annually in agricultural communities such as Wenatchee, Puyallup, and Yakima, as a \"traveling road show.\" Nineteen collection sites will be set up, primarily in Eastern Washington, between March and June. Baker said when bringing the pesticides to the disposal sites, participants have to submit an inventory form listing the pesticides being left. \"We'll even take small amounts of unknown pesticides,\" said Baker. He said they will take up to five pound containers of unknown pesticides. According to Joe Hoffman, WSDA disposal program coordinator, leaky containers or improper pesticide disposal may create serious health problems for humans and animals, contaminate drinking water supplies or cause significant environmental damage. It is also costly and difficult to clean up contaminated soil. \"We hope to reach new property owners who may find barrels, bottles or cans of unknown substances left behind by the previous owner,\" said Hoffman. \"A mystery container with unknown contents may be the most hazardous feature of your new property, especially if you have curious children or the container is leaking. We will help to identify the contents and, if it is a pesticide, we will arrange to have it removed at no cost. Once pesticides are taken into the WSDA's possession, the state department is responsible for them. For more information or to participate in the disposal day contact the WSDA, (360) 902-2056 or (877) 301-4555"}
{"Id":"1101163595494","Title":"City told unsolicited publications, salesmen a problem","Author":"John Panni","Time":"3/2/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"Alderwood resident Don Outhet just wants to be left alone and he wants the Alderwood City Council to do something to meet his needs. Holding a copy of the Yakima Herald-Republic's The Scoop, which is a weekly publication filled with inserts that is delivered to local residents' homes each week, Outhet asked Council members to do something about the unwanted material that is thrown on people's front doors. Outhet not only pointed out the Herald-Republic's publication, but said other unsolicited materials, such as phone books, cause a problem as well. \"I didn't order it,\" said Outhet. \"I don't want it.\" Outhet pleaded to the Council to do something to curb the problem. Outhet said unsolicited materials left on a door step of a vacationing person can be a sign to a burglar that no one is home. Outhet also asked the Council to do something about the door-to-door salesmen who pester local businessmen. As far as unwanted materials being left on people's doorsteps, Interim City Manager Bruce Rinz said he believes the city's litter code covers this problem, but said he will look more into the matter. Rinz further explained that with the door-to-door salesmen issue, there is nothing on the city books that stops them from frequenting retail businesses. Under the city code, door-to-door salesmen can't solicit items in residential neighbors, explained Rinz. Councilman John Torch said he was in favor of looking into the matter of stopping unsolicited materials from being left on a person's door step. Mayor Pro-tem George Greenway agreed with Outhet, saying he too is irritated with the situation surrounding the door-to-door salesmen. Greenway said salesmen frequent his business, but they come in with such items as fruit or other materials meant for his employees to purchase. Greenway said there is usually nothing the salesmen have that would benefit his business. Greenway also said the city is doing a disservice to local businesses who purchase business licenses by allowing the salesmen free reign of the city. Councilwoman Jennie Angel urged the Council to take caution in implementing any ordinance addressing this situation. Angel said the city doesn't want to deter groups such as high school students or Girl Scouts from performing fund-raisers. Mayor Rex Luthor directed city staff to look further into the matter"}
{"Id":"1101163595600","Title":"Alderwood Lab breakthrough in mad cow disease","Author":"John Panni","Time":"3/2/2004","Tag":null,"Content":" Boynton Lab spokesperson Laurel Sulfate told a press conference today that a team of biophysicists at Boynton Laboratories in Alderwood, Washington have developed a treatment for diseases such as Mad Cow and Kreutzfeldt-Jakob. Led by laboratory director Dr. Philip Boynton, and his chief scientists Drs. A. VonRyker and D. Sanderson, the scientists state that by exploiting a unique quality of these so-called \"prion diseases\"--that they do not infect all species equally--a prion inhibitor has been developed that stops the progress of the disease. The treatment has successfully been given to infected cattle in Brazil, where infections have been kept quiet until now. Caused by infectious, deformed proteins called prions, illnesses such as Mad Cow Disease encompass a wide array of troubling, mysterious \"spongiform encephalopathies,\" so named because they frequently cause the brain to become riddled with holes. Dr. Boynton originally characterized these diseases in 1982. He stated that mammalian cells contain prion proteins of two types: normal, cellular prions that don't cause disease; and abnormal, misshapen prions that arise from normal prions and do cause disease. Prion diseases exhibit an unusual quality--\"species asymmetry.\" For instance, while diseased mice infect hamsters well, diseased hamsters infect mice poorly. VonRyker uses a computer to simulate this asymmetry. Using hamsters and mice as one example, he claims the simulation shows that normal hamster prions, if injected into a mouse with prion disease, block the disease in the mouse. Alderwood Mayor Rex Luthor, speaking at the press conference with Sulfate, stated, \"This is truly an amazing development for Boynton. They have illustrated why they are the world-leaders in bio-technology, and we are extremely proud of their work"}
{"Id":"1101163595729","Title":"Grandview Council learns of future college plans","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"3/2/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"GRANDVIEW - As more and more students begin attending classes at the Grandview campus of Yakima Valley Community College (YVCC), the more the school is forced to look toward the future and possible expansion efforts. Debi Klimes, dean of the YVCC Grandview campus, talked to members of the Grandview City Council Monday night about the school's master plan and the role the college would like to play in the community. Klimes said work on the school's master plan began in February 2002 and was done by a committee of people that included community members Mayor Mike Bren and Barbara Olmsen, as well as members of YVCC's faculty, staff and students. She explained that when the committee began looking at mapping the future of the Grandview campus, the group took into account several key items. Klimes said the committee looked at maintaining a safe, attractive work environment for faculty and staff members; the campus' overall attractiveness; and using the college's existing facilities before building anything new. Klimes said the committee's overall goal was to create a campus community in Grandview. A place with a park-like setting that would attract people to the space. She said over time the college would also like to look at expanding. The first step of the expansion project has already taken place with the purchase of the old Safeway building on the corner of Wine Country Road and Avenue B. When completed, this space will house the viticulture and enology center, as well as the Allied Health Program. Klimes said in the future the college is also interested in expanding its campus north, giving YVCC more space for additional buildings and more parking. Klimes said funding for the renovation of the old Safeway building is currently coming in the form of donations and fund-raisers. She said donations have already been received from area wineries, grape growers and the wine association. She explained to council members that the college project qualifies for state matching funds, which would mean that for every dollar donated the state will put in a dollar in matching funds. Along with the additional space, Klimes told council members the school is hoping to form some active partnerships with the community in the way of providing shared use facilities, such as a fine arts space, a joint library and other recreational facilities. \"We want the facility to be open to the community,\" Klimes said. She explained that the college's master plan calls for a large central campus area that would feature low maintenance trees and lawn. \"That will help us keep things cool and soften the view,\" Klimes explained. The time frame for the college's master plan currently extends out past 2011, with work on the viticulture and enology center and the Allied Health Program facility scheduled to begin sometime between 2005-2007"}
{"Id":"1101163595994","Title":"Obituaries","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"3/2/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"HERBERT MILTON HAAS HERBERT MILTON HAAS August 27, 1900 February 29, 2004 103 years, 6 months and 2 days You are joined with your Beloved wife, Bernice, In a leap year which gave us an extra day with you. Now take her by the hand, fill your dance card with her name, And dance with her forever. You were always giving kindness. Never stopping to judge a man or a woman. Open to each new experience with fresh eyes. Teaching the world Brotherly Love in your acceptance of all. Lending yourself to the child in each of us with your Winnie the Pooh innocence of heart. Respecting people for their goodness and honest work. Being tender, caring, steady and hardworking so as to earn your sleep at the end of the day. Patient and lenient, fair and forgiving. Stable and stalwart, laughing and tearful. You reminded us to use our heads, to wake up in the morning and work our day s work out, to not hold jealousy or anger in our hearts. You may have not seen the 9th grade, but you never once stopped seeking to learn life s lessons and sharing them with others. Beauty did not escape your sight: a landscape, a lady, an act of good deed, a well-oiled machine, a nice suit, an infant, an animal, a planet, a star, an opportunity to give and to teach and to learn and receive. Your life was a painting: a tableau of seasonal rebirth and death. You palette was the rich earth itself. Your paint: the unplanted seed. Your brushes: your two agile hands. Your religion was Brotherhood. Your place of worship, the Masonic Temple. Your spiritual grounds were the asparagus farm, the task at hand, the garden you tend, and the person before you in the moment. You loved to travel and visit with family, and you equally received us all in your home with opened arms. You appreciated a good, balanced meal with your black coffee, and a bowl of vanilla ice-cream to top it all off. You maintained your independence by your willfulness. Not wanting to burden anyone by your need. Always saying Thank you, recognizing when people went out of their way to return a kindness. Being ever gracious. Your serenity was balanced by being happy within your own thought and sharing companionship in every way. Solitaire, the game you loved to play: turning over a card, to see what it was, and looking to see where it would fit into the whole picture before you. Playing, clearing the table, reshuffling, dealing again anew. Endless contemplation. Myriad possible outcomes. Always eager to see what was next. Patient to accept the hand. Such was your life. Everyone who met you has felt your love: An extraordinary man. A good man. A fair leader. A true companion. A wonderful asparagus farmer. A loving father. The best Grandpa. My sign of courage. You are father to Brian and Carole and Bill, Carole's husband. Your are Grandpa to Jon and Nicole, and Eva, Jon s wife. You are Great-Grandpa to Meghan and Emily. You are Uncle, Great-Uncle and Great-Great Uncle to a family line of more than 400 in America and Germany. You are friend to countless the world-over in how you live and let live. One of your wishes, before you closed your eyes for the last time, was to get better so you could help others . You have blown the candles out. We will fulfill your wish by keeping your light shining strong in our deeds. Though we speak of you in the past tense your legacy will always live in the present with us. As you said so many times: I ve had a wonderful life. You will be remembered and loved for always. Let us carry you to the dance hall, you sweet, sweet man. Viewing and visitation will be held Wednesday, March 3, 2004, from 3 to 8 p.m. at Wells Funeral Home, Alderwood. Funeral services at Wells Funeral Home, Alderwood, 10 a.m., Thursday, March 4. Burial to follow at Lower Valley Memorial Garden. Gathering in remembrance at the Masonic Temple, Alderwood. Memorials may be made to the Shriner s Hospital and the Orthopedic Guild. JOHN MARK LANSFORD John Mark Lansford, 47, of Mabton went to be in the arms of his Savior, Wednesday, Feb. 25, 2004, in Yakima. John Mark was born Aug. 7, 1956 in Waco, Texas, the son of Mary (Adams) and John Douglas O Bryant. John Mark received his early education in Waco before moving to Richland in 1980. John Mark received his Associate degree in auto mechanics from Columbia Basin College. On April 18, 1998 he married Diane Marshall in Mabton. John Mark was a missionary for the First Love Ministries in Mabton, and was currently employed by Community Living and Adult Care in Alderwood. John Mark enjoyed spending time in the out of doors with his dogs, working on cars, reading his Bible and talking with people. John Mark had an out going personality and made friends easy. John Mark is survived by his wife, Diane Lansford of Mabton; step-son, Levi Johnson of Kirkland; his mother, Mary Sawyer of Richland; and one sister, Marcia Pringle, of Richland. He is also survived by his grandmother, Bessis Adams of Waco; one aunt; and two nieces. John Mark was preceded in death by his grandfather, William Adams. Viewing and visitation will be held Friday, March 5, 2004, from 1 to 8 p.m. with an evening service at 6:30 p.m. at Wells Funeral Home, Alderwood. Graveside funeral services will be held Saturday, March 6, 2004, at 1 p.m. at Cleveland Cemetery in Cleveland, Bickleton area. Wells Funeral Home, Alderwood, is in charge of arrangements. Those wishing to honor his memory may contribute to the First Love Ministries, P.O. Box 10, Mabton, WA 98935"}
{"Id":"1101163596229","Title":"Recycling should be part of spring cleaning efforts, say Yakima County leaders","Author":"Jamie Smart","Time":"3/1/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"Each weekend as the days get longer and the weather gets a little warmer, the urge to get outside and begin spring clean-up grows stronger. But this year, when you begin your annual cleaning out of flower beds, garages and spare rooms, don't forget to recycle, urge officials at the Yakima County Solid Waste Division. \"We are urging county residents to reuse and recycle as much of their refuse as possible in celebration of Earth Day, April 22, said Loretta Zammarchi of the Solid Waste Division. We are encouraging residents to adopt recycling as a year-round family project, she said Yakima County is making big strides towards increased recycling efforts, Zammarchi said. \"Yakima County residents boast a 30 percent recycling rate and the trend toward recycling seems to be growing,\" she explained. The distribution of recycling bins throughout the Lower Valley has greatly added to the trend, she said. The county Solid Waste Division, in conjunction with Yakima Waste Services, has bins for plastics, papers and glass located at strategic places throughout the Alderwood area. And even if the bins are stuffed after a weekend of cleaning, creating something of a mess around the bins, Zammarchi is pleased to see people separating their recyclable items. She said simple projects such as recycling leaves and lawn clippings, rather than disposing the vegetation in the garbage cans, can also help the environment. She said her office annually hosts composting and recycling workshops which will give residents the necessary tips for the disposal of recyclable items. She said simple projects such as composting yard wastes, in addition to recycling family plastics, papers and glass, will go a long way toward helping to make the environment cleaner and safer for generations to come. April 22 is annually recognized as Earth Day and will be celebrated throughout Yakima County, Zammarchi said. \"We have a full calendar of activities scheduled through the month of April,\" she said. She said the Earth Day type activities include such things as riding bicycles or walking to work several days a week, attending good bug seminars and starting compost bins in the back yard. Other home activities may include planting a tree, she suggested. Community activities planned in April will be held at the Yakima Arboretum, Sarge Hubbard Park and in Lower Valley schools, she said. This week her office will be working with AmeriCorps volunteers to train them to be trainers in recycling, she explained. County Solid Waste Division representatives will be in Alderwood March 5 to host a workshop in recycling paper with the volunteers who plan a community Earth Day project, Zammarchi said. \"It's all part of our countdown to Earth Day,\" she explained. \"We will also be working with Lower Valley schools to create Earth Day messages on brown paper grocery bags,\" she added. Students at Pioneer, Washington and Outlook Elementary schools will aid in the Earth Day message project, Zammarchi said. \"While we won't begin our count-down to Earth Day until April 1, we know county residents are eager to get started with spring clean-up,\" she said. She urged residents to dispose of household hazardous wastes at the local transfer station on Snipes Mountain and at the Cheyne Road landfill near Zillah. Hazardous waste items include such things as car batteries, leftover paint and antifreeze. Other items such as tires must be taken to the Terrace Heights Landfill in Yakima, she said. Zammarchi said April 14 is the date for the annual Arbor Day family festivities to be held at the Yakima Arboretum. April 22 is the date for the annual Yakima Greenway Eagle Earth Day to be held at Sarge Hubbard Park in Yakima"}
{"Id":"1101163611869","Title":"Entertainment Briefs","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"2/27/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"1-Column Easter egg train pulls out of station Sunday, April 11 HOOD RIVER, ORE. - Box Car Bunny, with a basketful of goodies, will be the featured attraction on the Mt. Hood Railroad Easter egg train that is scheduled to leave the Hood River station Sunday, April 11. The 44-mile round-trip ride, to begin at 10 a.m., will begin in Hood River and continue through thousands of acres of dramatic, colorful fruit tree blossoms in the region's many orchards. The turn-around point will be the quaint town of Parkdale, at the foot of majestic Mt. Hood. Once in Parkdale, children aboard the train will be treated to an Easter egg hunt at the city park. During the return trip, children will receive Easter goodies. The train will arrive back in Hood River at about 2:15 p.m. The 98-year-old Mt. Hood Railroad is designated as an historic site by the National Register of Historic Places. The railway company has been in continuous operation since 1906 as a freight carrier, and has carried passengers since 1988. Tickets for the April 11 excursion, priced at 25.50 for adults and 17.50 for children, are available by calling 1-800-872-4661. GHS crab feed slated for Sunday GRANDVIEW - The fourth annual Grandview High School FFA/DECA crab feed, open to the public, is scheduled for this coming Sunday, Feb. 29. The 4 to 7 p.m. dinner fund-raiser will be held at the Grandview High School cafeteria. Tickets, priced at 25 for adults and 15 for senior citizens, are available from Grandview FFA and DECA Club members. Some tickets will also be available at the door Sunday afternoon. Heartstrings in concert Sunday PROSSER - The Lower Alderwood Valley Gospel singing group, \"Heartstrings,\" will be in concert at the Prosser Church of God this coming Sunday, Feb. 29, at 6 p.m. The group's recently released first album, on CD's and cassettes, will be available for purchase at Sunday night's concert. All Lower Valley residents are invited to attend the Feb. 29 concert at the Prosser church, located at 1332 Meade Ave. Kinderkoncertto be stagedat Capitol Theatre YAKIMA - The Yakima Youth Symphony Orchestra will present its annual Kinderkoncert event Sunday, March 7, at 3 p.m. at Yakima's Capitol Theatre. Kinderkoncert will feature performances by the youth orchestra, under the direction of Carol Alexander. The group consists of more than 50 students from throughout the Yakima Valley. The musical event is billed as a special program for children and their families, and attracts patrons of all ages who enjoy listening to great music. Musicial selections are made especially with the young listener in mind. The theme for this year's program will be \"Peter and the Wolf.\" The \"Radetzky March,\" by J. Strauss Sr., will also be performed. Following the program, the audience will have the opportunity to meet with the musicians. Because of a donation from Target stores, organizers are able to present this year's concert free of charge, although donations will be accepted at the door. Valley Buddhists host spring dinner WAPATO - The Wapato Buddhist Church will host its 43rd annual sukiyaki dinner Sunday, March 7, at the Buddhist hall, 212 W. Second Street, Wapato. Dinner will be served from 1:30 to 3:30 p.m. Tickets are 9 per person and will be available at the door. Guys and Dolls tickets go on sale Monday Reserve tickets will go on sale Monday, March 1, for the Valley Theater Company production of Guys and Dolls. Tickets are 10 for adults and 8 for senior citizens and students. Guys and Dolls opens March 19, with additional performances set for March 20, 26 and 27, at 7:30 p.m. with the Sunday, March 21, matinee at 2 p.m. All performances will be held at the Alderwood High school auditorium. Tickets will be on sale at the Alderwood Daily News in Alderwood, the Grandview Safeway store and Prosser's Elfers-Lyons Pharmacy"}
{"Id":"1101163612135","Title":"Calvary Lutheran School celebrates 25 years of teaching pre-schoolers","Author":"Jamie Smart","Time":"2/27/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"Tracy Bunch doesn't remember too much about her year as a student at Calvary Lutheran Pre-School, although she does remember the names of a few of her classmates. \"My teacher's daughter, Angie, was in my class,\" she recalls. \"I also remember wearing dresses all the time and having my hair done up in ponytails,\" she said. \"I was happy there,\" she added. Bunch was among the first 40 children to attend Calvary Lutheran Pre-school when it opened in January 1979, and is now looking forward to observing the school's 25th anniversary of its founding. Now grown and a mother of two, Tracy and her husband, Kyle, believe their children will also be happy attending the private school. The Calvary Lutheran school, located at the corner of Harrison Avenue and South 11th Street in Alderwood, will mark its 25th anniversary during Calvary Lutheran School Week, March 7-12. The week-long celebration will include the children singing for their families and the church congregation during Sunday services, said Sharon Kilian, the school director. Married in the Calvary Lutheran Church, the Bunches feel sending their son to the Lutheran-sponsored school will help build his confidence. \"It (the school) has such a warm and caring environment,\" Bunch said, adding her son, who is a bit shy, is warming to the loving care of his teachers. \"He is starting to break out of his shell,\" she said. Under the auspices of the Missouri Synod, the pre-school started with two classes of 3- and 4-year-olds, with just one teacher. Since its opening, the school, which now includes a kindergarten class, has seen 2,200 children past through its doors, Kilian said. According to current enrollment figures, 80 children attend pre-school classes and 10 children attend the fully-accredited kindergarten class, she added. Kilian, who has been involved with the school since its inception, now sees her grandchildren attending pre-school classes. \"I also see the children of my former students, like Tracy,\" said Kilian, who served as a teacher's aide during the early years of the school. According to school history, a pre-school for the Lutheran families was the dream of a long- time Alderwoodr Henry Miller, who promoted the pre-school concept for more than 40 years. His dream became reality in 1979, under the direction of former Alderwoodr Linda Puttler and Karolyn Rippy, the school's first certified teacher. Rippy, who retired a few years ago, helped direct classroom activities for 3 and 4-years-olds, and the kindergarten classes for most of the school's history, said Kilian. Today, Jeri Paulakis and Becky Gant serve as teachers for the school's 90 young students, leading them on adventures in academic, social and spiritual development. They are assisted by Lucy Rice and Jennifer Ward. During the week-long celebration of Lutheran School Week, the children will host a salmon dinner following church on Sunday, March 7. Proceeds from the dinner will be used for scholarships. Other activities during the week will include game, t-shirt and P.J. days, said Kilian. \"We have had steady enrollment growth over the years,\" said Kilian. \"We are now making preparation for our next expansion,\" she added. The school will be extending its kindergarten classes by one hour per day, Kilian explained. Kindergarten students now attend classes from 8 to 11 a.m., five-days-a-week. Next year, classes will be held from 8 a.m. until noon, she said"}
{"Id":"1101163613557","Title":"Forum","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"2/27/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"1-Column Mabton team, fanstrue sportsmen First, I would like to congratulate the Mabton Viking boys basketball team on its season, and also wish them luck this coming weekend in their quest for a State 'B' tournament bid. Last weekend, Riverside Christian played Mabton for the 'B' District tournament championship in Alderwood. The tremendous sportsmanship shown by Mabton's players, coaches and fans says a lot about the school and community. Our Riverside players and coaches would like to make sure you all know that we feel you're not only tough to beat on the court, but also off the court! Again, good luck Vikings! /s/ Bruce Siebol, head boys basketball coach, Riverside Christian High School, Yakima Library interesting I will tell you some reasons I like the public library. It has movies, a variety of books and books on tape. The reason I like the movies is because there are adult and children selections. We first were introduced to Anne Shirly of Anne of Green Gables when we checked out the movie. Also, you can check movies out for a whole week. I also like that they have a variety of books. The public library has adult, young adult and children's books. Everyone in my family can find something enjoyable to read. I can always find some of my favorite books \"The Cabin Faced West\" and \"Laura Ingalls Wilder.\" We can check these books out for 30 days. Finally, our public library has books on tape. \"Hank the Cow Dog\" is our family favorite. Books on tape are good for long trips and being in the car in general. These, unlike the movies, are checked out for 30 days, just like a book. As you can see, I find things interesting at the public library. Maybe you will, too. /s/ Jessie Robert, fifth grader, Chief Kamiakin Elementary School DSN exerting political influence The Alderwood Daily News continues to be an opinion-paper of the DSN management and not a news-paper. What was labeled to be the opinion of John Panni (written in the Rinz should be manager propaganda piece that appeared 2-25-04) seems out of character for Mike and more in line with the Old Guard effort of the Alderwood Daily News management style to exert its dominating political influence upon our community. Bruce Rinz is a good guy. He is an attorney. These do not qualify him for the position of City Manager. Some old political associations exist from the Leo Fancy Regime that would be unfavorable to Mark s being City Manager. Although the Alderwood Daily News favored that brand of politics (reference old newspapers), as a prudent department head, Mark was obliged to support those politics as part of his job description. To the detriment of Alderwood, The Alderwood Daily News was successful in its campaign to oust Pete Squires. Pete is a professional planner and was an excellent asset to our community. He refused to surrender to the control of special interest groups and only wished to serve the best interests of the residents of Alderwood. The Alderwood Daily News has a long history of being opposed to those types of community servants. The Alderwood Daily News management think tank again emerged in Mike s article to campaign for Marshall Doak as City Planner. Marshall is not a professional city planner and already has a job. The connections of his job would have a conflict of interest to the position of city planner. Apparently, conflict of interest is desirable to the campaign efforts of the Alderwood Daily News. Then, Panni s personal column continues to carry the torch lit by Bob Story as it bashes Councilman Tom Seeger and Don s efforts to steadfastly represent the community in employee relations. Mike ponders and expands upon petty minutia while ignoring the outstanding policies Don has assisted to develop for the benefit of Alderwood. To Bob and management; a staff meeting does not constitute research, nor do management memos substitute for investigative reporting. /s/ James E. Stevens, DMD, Alderwood Panni misses many points Per John Panni's personal column on Feb. 25: Mike is one journalist that I have respected for a long time. But I feel he missed many points in his column. Without a doubt, Bruce Rinz is as fine of a gentleman as you will find anywhere. Yes, he would make a good city manager. Does he even want it, is the question. If so, he no doubt has applied for it. And if the City Council thinks he is the right man for the job, they will do the right thing and appoint him manager. But are there other people out there who may be as qualified? If so, let's find out. Let's go through the process. And if he is the best and wants it, I would say it would be a great choice. I do feel the city has some real fine city employees. Many, second to none. But the Council is not elected to represent the employees. They are elected to represent the TAXPAYER. And Mike did not once mention the taxpayer in his column. These are the people that should never be forgot. They are the bread and butter of Alderwood. Most of the city employees are represented by a union. The unions are the ones to look out for these employees. It was a huge blunder on Mike's part to think the Council should worry about the employees. They should not. They need to worry about taxpayers only. The city manager then must worry about the Council and the employees. This is the manager's job, totally. As far as the employees and councilmen going at it weekly, it does not concern me. If we are open minded, we can learn a lot from the exchanges. These employees think they are not replaceable. The Council thinks they are. So, you have two sides who disagree. What's the big deal? Disagreements have been going on ever since the beginning of this world. If you don't have disagreements, then you don't have a free society. Mike mentions that the Council should quit micro-managing. Are they really micro-managing or are they trying to get a point across that no one wants to listen to? It is the city manager's responsibility to bring this micro-managing into the flow of city business. A good city manager can and will confront anything he thinks is out of place for the good of the city. If he is afraid to do this then he does not belong in his position. But the city manager must be willing to listen to and accept all direction from the Council. Mike mentions at the very end of his column that \"if an employer treasures an employee, the employee will treasure the job. Is that so hard to understand?\" Yes, that is very hard to understand because it is not true. I would say it may be more accurate in a privately owned business. But most definitely not in government or the corporate world with all the unions today. It is not the human nature of 100 percent of humanity to treasure their jobs, even with outlandish pay. It just isn't so and never will be. IMPOSSIBLE! /s/ Don Padelford, Alderwood"}
{"Id":"1101163613791","Title":"Alderwood school superintendent puts vehicle bids on hold","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"2/27/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"The Alderwood School Board last night approved a bid to purchase two vehicles for the Migrant Student Records System (MSRS) program. Alderwood School District Superintendent Dr. Aaron Bones Friday morning, though, put a hold on the bid. Bones was unable to be at Thursday night's school board meeting because of a personal commitment. Bones said until he can get some more clarification on what happened with the bid process for the vehicles, he is putting the issue on hold. \"(The) bid (is) on hold until we can review it with legal counsel and the state auditor,\" said Bones Friday morning. The issue concerns the district purchasing two vehicles for the MSRS program, which would in turn lease the cars from the school district. Alderwood School District is the fiscal agent for the MSRS program. MSRS program workers travel all over the state to aid migrant students. MSRS Director Lee Campos wants to purchase the vehicles because it will be less expensive than paying his staff a mileage stipend. The school district received three bids for the vehicles, one from Toyota of Yakima, another from Tom Denchel Ford and a third from the state vehicle bid process through Harris Ford of Lynnwood. The bid from Toyota of Yakima for each vehicle was 20,195. Denchel's had a significantly less bid of 14,212 per car while the state bid from Harris Ford was 13,429. The school board went with the recommendation of Executive Director of Finance Dave Plesha to purchase two, 2004 Camrys from Toyota of Yakima. Bones said Friday morning he will be reviewing the entire bid process for the vehicles again before any final decision is made"}
{"Id":"1101163614026","Title":"School board informed Mid-Valley League hoop schedule to be changed next season","Author":"John Panni","Time":"2/27/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"Mid-Valley League high school basketball will have a new look to it next year. That was the message Alderwood High School Principal Dennis Birr and Grizzly Athletic Director Bill Daley brought before the Alderwood School Board Thursday night. Daley told board members that at a Feb. 10 meeting in Prosser of principals and athletic directors, a new scheduling system for Mid-Valley League games was discussed. The new scheduling, which will take effect next season, will have boys and girls varsity and junior varsity basketball teams playing all Mid-Valley League games on Tuesday and Friday nights. C-squad and freshman league basketball games will be played on Thursdays and Saturdays. Daley said with Grandview leaving the Mid-Valley League next year, teams will only have 12 league games. Daley did tell the school board that Alderwood's varsity teams will still have to play some Saturday contests because of its non-league schedule, as other schools that aren't in the Mid-Valley don't fall under this schedule. Under the scheduling, the varsity girls and junior varsity boys basketball teams would play at 5:45 p.m. on both Tuesday and Friday nights for league games. The varsity boys and junior varsity girls would play at 7:15 p.m. The C-squad and freshman basketball teams will hold the same Thursday night times for their games. Games times would be different on Saturdays with the C-squad girls and freshman boys playing at 1 p.m. The C-squad boys and freshman girls would follow at 2:30 p.m. The school district will not charge patrons to attend the Thursday and Saturday games, said Daley. Daley said one of the reasons for the change was the extended amount of time students are gone on game nights. Under the old format, all four teams would play on the same night. For away games, students would leave around 2:30 p.m., depending on the game site, and not return until 11 p.m. or later. \"What we will see (under this schedule) is our kids getting home earlier,\" said Daley. There are several benefits to this format, said Daley. First, the number of workers needed to stage a basketball game will be less. Currently, Daley said most schools are using nearly 20 people a night to put on a game. Daley said the league will also be able to obtain better officials for Tuesday night games. There will also be more gym space available, as games will only be played in two gyms instead of three. Another benefit, said Daley, is that the varsity coach will have an opportunity to see all squads play. The negative side to the proposal, pointed out Daley, is that not all coaches will be on the bench for each of the games. The C-squad and freshman coaches could conceivably be coaching four nights per week. Non-league scheduling and study time for class assignments could also be limited. Daley said for the next two years, the Tuesday night scheduling will be a great benefit for Alderwood, as the Grizzlies will have their two byes on that evening. Birr added the new scheduling will also help free up some clogged gym space at the elementary schools. Currently, the basketball programs are interfering with after-school elementary programs such as 21st Century and Latchkey. \"We saw some side benefits coming out of this for our elementary kids,\" said Birr. Birr added that other Mid-Valley schools are in favor of the new schedule because of a lack of gymnasium space to house all the games simultaneously. Daley said there is a potential loss of revenue under the new scheduling system, but he is hoping the non-league games will make-up for any loss of monies. Daley told the board he will be keeping a close eye on the revenue situation. \"It will be a good change and it will be reviewed,\" said Daley. . John Panni can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or email him at mPanni@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101163614291","Title":"Mabton School Board Briefs","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"2/26/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"1-Column Mabton School Board shortens spring break MABTON - The Mabton School District will make up two school days lost to icy January weather during its April spring break. The Mabton School Board, meeting this past Monday night, approved removing two days from the spring break schedule to give students more class time before they face their annual Washington Assessment of Student Learning examinations. School closures in January due to inclement weather will be made up April 1 and 2. Originally, Mabton School District was to have been on spring break Thursday, April 1, through Friday, April 9. Mabton students will celebrate spring break beginning Monday, April 5. The last day of school will be June 9 with seniors graduating June 4. Mabton School Board boosts lunch prices MABTON - The Mabton School Board during its Monday night meeting approved increases in lunch prices. The student lunch prices, which haven't been raised in two years, will increase by 10 at the elementary school and by 5 at the high school, following the board action. Artz-Fox Elementary School lunch prices will jump from 1.50 to 1.60 with lunch prices going from 1.75 to 1.80 at Mabton Junior-Senior High School. The increased prices will go into effect during the 2004-05 school year. Mabton School District hosts national literacy expert MABTON - Nationally known reading expert Shelley Harwayne of New York City will hold a literacy workshop in the Mabton School District Monday, March 1. Harwayne will work with the Mabton School District teaching staff from 8 to 10 a.m., as part of the district's emphasis on reading and writing improvements and teacher coaching. Harwayne is also expected to work with teaching coaches from Alderwood and Grandview school districts during her Lower Valley visit, according to Kevin Chase, Mabton School District superintendent. A retired New York City Community School District 2 Superintendent, Harwayne is the author of several books, including Lasting Impressions: Weaving Literature into Writing Workshops and Going Public: Priorities and Practices at the Manhattan New School. Rob Roettger named Mabton Jr./Sr. High head track coach MABTON - Artz-Fox Elementary School teacher Rob Roettger has been appointed head track coach at Mabton Junior-Senior High School. Roettger, who is serving as a literacy coach through Mabton School District's Reading First Grant, will begin spring track practices the first of March. Roettger will be assisted by D.J. Search, who coaches the Viking football team"}
{"Id":"1101163614526","Title":"Young Life growing","Author":"Melissa Browning","Time":"2/26/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"In January Lower Valley Young Life Director Tom Sacher had the opportunity to hear Joni Erickson Tada speak to 3,000 Young Life staff members and spouses. The woman, who has been a quadriplegic for 30 years due to a diving accident, attended Young Life activities as a high school student. She shared with the Young Life staff and spouses that it was Young Life kids and leaders that helped her get through more than a year in the hospital, Sacher told members of the Alderwood Kiwanis Club Thursday morning. The Thursday morning guest speaker spoke to the service club at a time when Young Life is growing in the Lower Valley. \"Young Life in the Lower Valley is at a point where the dam is about to burst,\" said Sacher. The group is two months away from sponsoring its first Wyldlife Club, which is a group for middle school-aged youth. This will be the first time a Wyldlife Club will be available to middle schoolers in the Lower Valley. He said the group already has five adult leaders and a student leader to start Wyldlife, who are beginning to meet middle school aged kids. \"We got permission to go into the middle school and meet kids,\" said Sacher. He said there has also been interest in starting Young Life clubs in Prosser and Grandview, and he added, he hopes that clubs starting in Mabton, Bickleton, Zillah and Granger are just around the corner. In looking ahead to the summer months, Sacher said that about 95 percent of Young Life's summer camp spots have already been spoken for. \"That's huge for us to have middle school and high school kids already thinking about this summer,\" said Sacher. The Young Life annual fund-raising brunch is scheduled for Saturday, March 20, at Navarro's Community Center. A silent auction begins at 9:30 a.m. with the brunch beginning at 10 a.m. Youths who have benefited from Young Life will be speaking at the brunch. Sacher said one of the ways to expand into other areas of the Lower Valley is to increase the donor base and to develop more volunteer leaders. \"We need 100 people willing to give 10 a month,\" said Sacher. \"Giving up two Whoppers a month will help us. It's the committed monthly gifts that makes Young Life happen.\" For more information about Young Life or to attend the Young Life brunch contact Sacher at 840-4448"}
{"Id":"1101163614760","Title":"New manager named for livestock identification program","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"2/26/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"For nearly 70 years the Washington State Department of Agriculture (WSDA) has been recording brands and therefore recording ownership of livestock. The WSDA Livestock Identification Program was taken over by the department in 1935, and just several weeks ago the program was taken over by a new program manager. Feb. 2, Wendy Rude began serving as the manager of the state's livestock identification program. Rude holds a Bachelor's degree from Pacific Lutheran University and a Master's degree from Seattle University. Rude, who grew up on a family farm in Roy, has extensive agricultural experience, which includes working with livestock quarantines, transportation, branding and identification concerns. Rude comes to the WSDA after spending 14 years as executive director of the Northwest Rehabilitation Riding Program in Eatonville. Rude said the role of the program is to maintain official records on the approximately 7,000 livestock brands registered in Washington. She explained that once a brand is registered with the state, the livestock identification program maintains the records of the brand, including its history. Rude explained that although the state keeps records on the brands, the brands themselves are actually owned by the farmers and ranchers who register them. \"They have title to that brand,\" Rude said. She said the livestock identification program also conducts inspections of cattle and horses at public markets, slaughterhouses, certified feedlots, before change of ownership and prior to movement out of the state. Rude said inspectors go in and inspect the animals hands-on for proof of ownership. There are livestock brand inspectors located throughout the state. \"Our staff is everywhere,\" Rude said, including the Toppenish Sales Yard. She said there are livestock brand inspectors located on-site in Toppenish, working to ensure proof of ownership for all of the animals bought and sold at auction. Another role the livestock identification program fills is dealing with missing or stolen animals. Rude said whenever there is question of ownership, inspectors are called in to help take part in the investigative process. For Rude, serving as the manager of the livestock identification program will mean providing leadership for the inspectors, as well as working hand-in-hand with both the director and assistant director of the Washington State Department of Agriculture. Rude said so far she has found herself stationed in Olympia, although once she gets settled into her new position she said she will be traveling throughout the state. Rude will also be meeting with the Livestock Identification Advisory Board, which is made up of six members who represent different areas of the livestock industry, from beef producers to meat processors. She explained that the advisory board allows representatives from the livestock industry to come together with the Department of Agriculture to voice concerns they may have or issues they want to address. Rude said two issues the advisory board is currently discussing are the Country of Origin Labeling law and animal identification. . Ellie Olmsen can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or e-mail her at eOlmsen@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101163614994","Title":"Newhouse, Chandler displeased with House supplemental budget","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"2/26/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"OLYMPIA - Alderwood area lawmakers Dan Newhouse and Bruce Chandler maintain that the Democratic-crafted supplemental budget adopted by the House of Representatives yesterday puts taxpayers at risk. The two Republican representatives said the Democrat budget plan puts taxpayers back into a 1 billion budget hole. The Washington State House approved the supplemental budget Wednesday on a straight party-line vote, 51-45. During the 2003 session, the state legislature adopted a bipartisan two-year operating budget that closed a 2.7 billion shortfall without general fund tax increases. This year, lawmakers worked on a supplemental budget to make adjustments for emergencies and unforeseen costs, such as increased school enrollment and prison populations. Newhouse and Chandler, though, say the supplemental budget that was brought to the floor of the House Wednesday spends reserves down to dangerous levels. \"We're seeing a slight recovery in our economy, but everyone knows we are facing a shortfall in the next budget cycle,\" said Chandler (R-Granger). \"Instead of using this supplemental budget as an opportunity to begin correcting the problem, they've developed a plan that makes the situation worse and puts taxpayers at risk.\" The two legislators explained that the House Democrat spending plan leaves an ending balance of just 199 million in the state general fund, and would leave the state with a projected shortfall of 1 billion in the next biennium. The two lawmakers say the spending plan includes 261 million in new spending for expanded programs, offset by just 17 million in proposed cuts. That, say Newhouse and Chandler, is a significant contrast to the more responsible budget plan passed by the Washington State Senate on Wednesday. The Senate's supplemental budget, crafted by the GOP, increases state spending by 69 million, but leaves 399 million in the state's emergency reserve account. It also includes no new taxes and represents the slowest growing budget in state history, say Republican leaders. \"I feel we did the right thing for our jobs climate, for the elderly, for students, for low-income families and for taxpayers in general,\" said Sen. Joe Zarelli (R-Ridgefield), chair of the Senate Ways and Means Committee. Zarelli points out that the Senate budget provides full funding for nursing homes and preserves community mental health funding. He also notes that the Senate budget provides a 1 percent salary increase for classified employees of school districts, and appropriates 5 million yearly in county backfill motor vehicle excise tax money. Newhouse (R-Alderwood) said the House Democratic plan is shortsighted and ignores the budget challenge facing lawmakers. \"We do not have the money to support this level of spending,\" said Newhouse. \"It will force us to make drastic cuts to core services or raise taxes at a time when families and employers can least afford it. \"The looming tax burden is bad medicine for taxpayers and for our state's economy,\" he added. The 2004 legislative session is scheduled to end March 11. Lawmakers from both the House and Senate will negotiate in the remaining days to work out differences in the competing budget proposals"}
{"Id":"1101163615244","Title":"Weekly Bowling Report","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"2/26/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"1-Column Valley LanesWeek #25 Early Birds 2-17-04 High series: Sue Rice 556 (194), Linda Duim 498 (208), Cindy Jenson 495 (169), Janice Kline 491 (184). Highest series over average: Janice Kline 110. High average: Sue Rice 169. LL: Valley Lanes 20-16. Sunny Valley Women 2-17-04 High series: Deania Guy 586 (214-214), Ruthie Lynch 574 (203-203), Denise James 556 (196), Tina Schlieve 526 (184). Single game highlights: Vicky Charvet 216. High average: Christie Cromwell 193. LL: Valley Asphalt & Sealing 21-15. Late Ladies 2-17-04 High series: Janice Dorsey 521 (194), Debbie Langworthy 489 (174), Donna Langworthy 488 (179), Jessica Dorsey 463 (189). Highest series over average: Andrea Arteaga 52. High average: Janice Dorsey 168. LL: 10-4 Cafe 153.5-46.5. Wednesday Mixers 2-18-04 High men's series: Charlie Tilley 592 (209), Harry Van Boven 514 (181), John Wilson 507 (187). Highest men's series over average: Cory Blount 63. High women's series: Sue Rice 516 (198), Susan Lopez 514 (192), Deania Guy 503 (188). Highest women's series over average: Susan Lopez 133. High men's average: Rob Rice 224. High women's average: Sue Rice 170. Winner second third: Pinbusters 24-20. Inter-City 2-18-04 High series: Chuck Curtiss 673 (257-229), Dan Bieber 653 (219-237), Joseph LaClair 635 (216-215-204), Dick Frank 629 (244). Highest series over average: Eddy Perez 95. Single game highlights: Steve Berg 236, Elray Compo 236, Ed Guy 234, Chuck Carl 226, Don Puyear 224, Jeff Norem 222, John Gress 221, Virgil Lallashute Sr. 220. High average: Brandon Rice 226. Winner second third: Valley Lanes 203-127. Coffee Trio 2-19-04 High series: Sue Rice 547 (191), Susan Brown 527 (198), Carol Tucker 493 (233), Kathy Padgett 483 (173). Highest series over average: Penny Springer 67. High average: Sue Rice 176. LL: Daffy Daffodils 16-4. Commercial 2-19-04 High series: Dennis Cavin 777 (256-264-257), Bud Haynes 654 (232-201-221), Jon Peton 647 (246-209), Rick Mashburn 640 (232-217). Highest series over average: Dennis Cavin 180. Single game highlights: Bob Story 269, Jim Schlenker 258, Curt Poteet 253, Rick Mitoff 246, Brad Morrow 246, Ed Ulmer 246, Dennis Huth 238, Dave Story 235, Dusty Van Hollebeke 232, Dave Huth 226, Greg Gustafson 226, Chris Hill 226, Nick Newhouse 222, Ed Seifert 221. High average: Brad Morrow 210. LL: Pat Hicks Concrete #1 49-11. Friday Fun Bunch 2-20-04 High men's series: Robert Haggerty 623 (242-232), Jim Whitefoot 622 (219-215), Virgil Lallashute Jr. 615 (212-222). Highest men's series over average: Jim Whitefoot 121. High women's series: Kim Smartlowit 554 (198), Stephanie Luke 534 (190), Donna Lallashute 522 (181). Highest women's series over average: Shilo Kelly 81. Single game highlights: Redfern Mardel 226. High men's average: Robert Haggerty 207. High women's average: Kim Smartlowit 199. LL: Beer Dogs 8.5-3.5. Preps & Bantams 2-21-04 High boys series: Jaime Sarmiento 419 (174), Dillan Sheets 402 (153), Trey Rice 354 (135). Highest boys series over average: Tyler Stanton 110. High girls series: Jadelynn Howard 423 (151), Cynthia Pacheco 365 (130), Jennifer Cruz 356 (146). Highest girls series over average: Jadelynn Howard 54. High boys average: Trey Rice 128. High girls average: Jadelynn Howard 124. LL: 3 Muskateers 25-11. Jrs. & Majors 2-21-04 High boys series: Tanner Schaneman 639 (214-214-211), Cody Huth 589 (204-203), Aaron Allison 552 (224). Highest boys series over average: Aaron Allison 108. High girls series: Beth Cruz 510 (171), Nicole Huth 500 (185), Aleshia Langworthy 479 (182). Highest girls series over average: Aleshia Langworthy 38. Single game highlights: Blake Bonesman 241, Shane Huth 207. High boys average: Tanner Schaneman 204. High girls average: Nicole Huth 156. LL: Team #7 142.5-82.5. Sunday Mixers 2-22-04 High men's series: Virgil Lallashute Sr. 700 (255-229-216), Mitch Cruz 672 (248-211-213), Chuck Curtiss 657 (226-247). Highest men's series over average: Virgil Lallashute Sr. 121. High women's series: Darlene Orr 595 (203-214), Maria Hill 552 (231), Donna Lallashute 551 (232). Highest women's series over average: Maria Hill & Debbie Stenberg 102. Single game highlights: Chris Guy 234, Gabe Rodriguez 225, Tim Cruz 221, Sheila Cruz 213. High men's average: MitchCruz 222. High women's average: Sheila Cruz 180. LL: Lucky Strikes 9-3. Lower Valley Scratch (5 games) 2-23-04) High series: Dave Huth 1239 (223-248-279-256-233), Chris Guy 1154 (255-243-268), Mitch Cruz 1117 (268-206-203-258), Joseph LaClair 1089 (236-212-219-240). Highest series over average: Dave Huth 194. Single game highlights: Dick Frank 276, Andy Abrams 260, Virgil Lallashute Sr. 259, Brandon Rice 257, Chuck Curtiss 256, Virgil Lallashute Jr. 251, David Hill 248, Jim Schlenker 245, Derek Colley 244, Bob Hicks 244, Bud Haynes 238, John Golob 235, Harry Van Boven 232, Bert Gilbert 231, Tony Alvarez 227, Kim Smartlowit 212, Christie Cromwell 211. High average: Mitch Cruz 221. LL: Valley Lanes 68-22"}
{"Id":"1101163636385","Title":"Outlook Grange still serving rutabagas at annual dinner","Author":"Melissa Browning","Time":"2/25/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"OUTLOOK - Originally, the Outlook Grange dinner menu consisted of chicken as part of its main course, but five years after the first dinner it was switched to roast beef and turkey. One thing that has not changed is the rutabaga element of the meal. Rutabagas may be a vegetable more commonly associated with the fall and winter months, but if properly stored in a cool, dry place they will last until spring. \"Back then (in 1933) rutabagas were a primary food people ate a lot of,\" said Pat Barr, one of the organizers of the annual dinner. She explained that originally farmers grew a lot of rutabagas in the Lower Valley as a secondary crop. Today, it is a little more difficult to find the slightly peppery vegetable, which is a cross between a sweet potato and a turnip. In the past farmers would donate rutabagas, but now the grange has to buy the vegetable from local farmers who still grow the root. Barr said the rutabagas range in size from four to eight inches. She explained the grange members work together to prepare the vegetable for the dinner. \"Friday we go down to the grange and peel them,\" she said. \"They have a heavy skin. Then we simmer them with chunks of bacon.\" Grange members serve the soft rutabagas in chunks rather than mashing them, which is another way to serve it. Not a common vegetable nowadays, Barr said the dinner will be a good time for younger people to try the vegetable. Barr said with an interest in nutrition and eating healthier foods, people might be glad to know that rutabagas are high in Vitamin A and have cancer fighting agents in them. A cup of cooked rutabagas has 64 calories and is low in protein with only 15 carbohydrates, said Barr. She added that they are a good source of calcium and beta carotene, which is good for the eyes. This year the grange, which is located at 4400 Van Belle Road, is gearing up for another annual dinner, which will be held on Leap Day, Sunday, Feb. 29, from noon to 3 p.m. Last year 300 people attended the dinner, which is the major fund-raiser for the grange. \"It keeps us busy,\" she said. The first Outlook Grange dinner was served in 1933 as a fund-raiser. Rutabagas are not the only food on the menu for the annual dinner. Roast beef, turkey, mashed potatoes, green beans, apple salad, pie and a roll will also be served, according to Barr. The cost of the dinner is 6 for adults and 3 for children. . Melissa Browning can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or e-mail mbrowning@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101163636667","Title":"REC board queried on why funds not allocated for skate park","Author":"Jamie Smart","Time":"2/25/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"As the Lower Alderwood Valley Rural Enterprise Community (LYVREC) board met Tuesday night to review progress being made by the agencies that received funding from the federally-funded board last month, representatives of a rejected Alderwood city project waited to question the board on its funding decisions. Alderwood Parks and Recreation Department Director Don Stiles and Danny Mendoza, 16, who has championed the construction of a skateboard facility at SunnyView Park, attended Tuesday night's meeting asking for a better explanation of why Alderwood's skateboard park proposal had been swept off the funding table. \"How did we go from being at the top of the funding list to being scrapped all together,\" asked Mendoza, who has been working on the skateboard project for the past five years. The skateboard park project, designed to become a part of SunnyView Park, located midway between Alderwood and Grandview, was not among the selections which received appropriations from the LYVREC board's final pot of money in January. In late December, the Alderwood City Council requested all of the remaining money left of the LYVREC's 2.9 million federal funding, about 100,000, for the development of the Lower Valley park, a request some feel may have led to its being rejected from funding consideration. Not so, said Joan Souders, LYVREC board chair. \"As I've said before, we looked at sustainability and jobs when it came to our funding decision,\" said Souders. Receiving the bulk of the REC funds were a Grandview playground project and a grape and wine education center at the Grandview campus of Yakima Valley Community College. Also receiving REC funding were the Washington State Migrant Council's Alderwood Community Center equipment request, and the Horizon Of Alderwood's adult computer, education and language classes. Alderwood Community Hospital also received funding for a health care program for young people considering entering the health field. All of those projects, including the Alderwood park proposal, had been among the top projects initially approved for consideration by the LYVREC board in December. But controversy over the Alderwood City Council's request for the entire 100,000 may have colored the board decision, a claim denied by the LYVREC Board. \"We only had a certain amount of money to distribute,\" said Mike Henry, a board member from Alderwood. \"We had to look at all of the projects,\" he said, reiterating that no single community was judged over another. Henry said the board was very interested in the skate park, but ultimately the issue of jobs was the determining criteria. Souders said there were other applicants who were also eliminated. \"All of the applicants were given an opportunity to move to the next level,\" she said. Souders told Mendoza and Stiles that the board worked hard to make the \"best decision with the amount of money we had. \"We had a scoring process and we strictly followed it,\" she added"}
{"Id":"1101163636901","Title":"Mabton schools make improvement plans","Author":"Jamie Smart","Time":"2/25/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"MABTON - Cross grade collaborations, improved teacher-student-parent communications, and strengthening of staff training towards improving classroom instruction are high on lists of goals being examined by Mabton School District building improvement teams. Team leaders met with the Mabton School Board Monday night to explain early drafts of their school improvement plans. The plans, which are part of a three-year improvement study and implementation program, must be submitted to the state Office of the Superintendent of Public Instruction by March 31. Monday's board presentations by Artz-Fox Elementary School Principal Julie Schmick and Mabton Junior/Senior High School Principal Keith Morris focused on early data collection regarding students' academics strengths and weaknesses, as well as strategies for student improvements. The building team leaders told the board their first aim is to shore up their goals with logical rationale. As part of the data being collected at Artz-Fox Elementary School, the improvement plan team is collecting assessment scores from all tests, explained Schmick. \"We want to look at all testing as one piece,\" said Schmick. \"We want to see what the programs are doing and how they are chLofferging our students,\" she said. \"We also want to be able to show the actual number of students who are less than five points from passing the state WASLs,\" she added. Strategies being proposed by the Artz-Fox team include increasing communication between teachers and parents, increasing the number of school-wide activities, and implementing plans to have people trained in using data-driven instruction. Artz-Fox goals also call for holding monthly grade level meetings in an effort to customize instruction to meet individual student needs. Peer coaching, K-12 collaborations and teacher self-assessments are also among the issues being examined by the Artz-Fox team. At the junior/senior high school, the improvement team is focused on the areas of reading, math and supportive environment, commonly called school climate. Among the team's goals is the improvement of student motivation by improving student-to-teacher, teacher-to-student relationships, explained Jennifer LeRose, a member of the high school team. She said the team's rationalization for focusing on the improved student/teacher relationships is based on research. \"Research points toward students being more engaged in school when they know there is an adult at school who cares about them,\" LeRose said. She said the supportive environment team hopes to begin building a foundation for the improved relations via a myriad of avenues, including teacher-student surveys, journal entries and shared activities for teachers and students. She said one way this might be accomplished could be through academic excellence assemblies or through other types of personal success assemblies and classroom acclamation. Brett Simpson, who is team leader of the math portion of the secondary building improvement team, said his group is collecting data regarding student development and growth in the area of math literacy. He said, for example, the middle school level teachers are researching student math scores as far back as fifth grade to determine where gaps may have developed. Simpson said the team is also seeking to increase math communication by examining the instructional weaknesses. \"We will also be using both WASL and other tests to monitor student improvements and other areas in need of instructional intervention,\" he explained. Her team's portion of the building improvement study is still in a draft form, said Mabton Junior/Senior High School English Teacher Tamara Steen. Steen said among the reading team's strategies will be to increase reading through parental involvement, via homework hotlines, increased utilization of a literacy coach to improve classroom instruction and aligning of all reading and writing requirements across the curriculum topics. Steen said teachers have to be passionate about teaching reading and writing. \"We have to do a better job of teaching kids,\" she said. Steen said reading, listening and writing are all related and must be addressed in all subject areas. The reading team also has set as one of its goals the increased utilization of existing technologies for expansion of students' literacy skills. \"Programs such as the accelerated reading programs are helping students to improve their reading and writing skills,\" she explained. \"We have begun to share our enthusiasm and we are seeing improvements,\" she added. A lot of the areas being examined by the three high school teams overlap, explained Robin Washam, the high school building improvement facilitator. Washam, who is working with the high school teams, is a school improvement plan specialist from the state OSPI. She said working with the Mabton Junior/Senior High School staff has been \"wonderful.\" \"They have already established student achievement mission statements. We are only in the preliminary discussions, compiling data, research and developing actions plans,\" she told the school board. \"It's a big effort to pull together all of the threads. Everyone here is very committed,\" she said. The building improvement teams meet each Friday afternoon to work on the various components of the improvement study, said Kevin Chase, Superintendent of Mabton Schools. The next steps in the school improvement plan will include creating steps for implementation of goals and ongoing monitoring of the plans, Chase said"}
{"Id":"1101163637135","Title":"Lady Grizzlies go down fighting","Author":"John Panni","Time":"2/25/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"ELLENSBURG - Last night's opening round 3A Regional girls basketball game between Ellensburg and Alderwood will be known as the one that got away from the Lady Grizzlies. If it hadn't been for the third quarter heroics of Ellensburg senior Tiffanie Ulmer, the Lady Grizzlies would be traveling to Eastern Washington University this coming weekend to play Clarkston. Ulmer pulled the Lady Bulldogs back into the game and helped push Ellensburg by Alderwood, 38-37. \"We had it all in our hands,\" said Alderwood Coach Leo Gomez. \"And we let it slip away.\" What was notable about last night's game is the way the Lady Grizzlies played after being blown out 59-19 last Friday in Ellensburg in a District tournament game. Last night, the Lady Grizzlies went tooth and nail with Ellensburg in the first half. Both teams posted 14-point opening halves. \"Nobody was shooting the ball that well,\" said Gomez. Gomez said this time around with the Lady Bulldogs he went to a match-up zone defense. Last Friday when Alderwood and Ellensburg played, Gomez went with man-to-man defense and didn't have the experienced players to match up with Ulmer in the post. Ulmer had 18 points last Friday night. Ulmer finished with 11 points last night, but scored 7 of those points during a crucial run by the Lady Bulldogs midway through the third quarter. With four minutes to go, Ulmer hit a 3-pointer and then another bucket to put Ellensburg back on top. \"That made the difference,\" said Gomez. With six minutes to go in the game, Ellensburg expanded its lead to 9 points, only to watch as Alderwood stormed back. Towards the end of the game, Ellensburg hit a couple of free throws to open the lead to 3 points. Alderwood's Bobi Haringa pulled the Lady Grizzlies to within a point after sinking two free throws. Alderwood had one last chance with three seconds on the clock, but couldn't get a shot to fall. \"They (Alderwood players) did a great job,\" said Gomez. \"We knew going into the game we had nothing to lose.\" Gomez said last night's game was important because it showed his young team they could play with a quality squad such as Ellensburg. Alderwood finished its 2003-04 campaign with a league record of 5-9. The Lady Grizzlies went 9-15 overall. Gomez loses only senior on this year's team, Hilary Van de Graaf. \"Hilary is a class act player,\" said Gomez. \"Having everybody else back next year is going to be fun"}
{"Id":"1101163637401","Title":"SCHS freshman student ambassador for European trip","Author":"Melissa Browning","Time":"2/24/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"Alderwood Christian High School student Adrian Van Oostrum will be making his first trip to Europe this summer as a People To People student ambassador. Van Oostrum will be in Europe this summer from July 2 to July 26. He will be on the European Heritage tour, which will allow him to visit places such as London, Normandy, Paris, Bruges, Rotterdam, the Rhine Valley, The Black Forest and Zurich. His itinerary will be finalized in June, he said. Van Oostrum was nominated to be a member of the team, but he's still not sure who nominated him. While on his tour he is expected to meet a member of the British Parliament and visit some of the great historical sites. \"I hope to see the different cultures and how they live,\" said Van Oostrum. He added that he hopes to see places such as Normandy Beach. Van Oostrum, the son of Henry and Marilyn Van Oostrum, is currently raising money for the trip, which will cost more than 4,000, which includes all of his costs while in Europe. Van Oostrum will be traveling with nine other students from Ellensburg and the Lower Valley and his team will meet up with 10 students from the Tri-Cities area. The 20 Washington students will be joining 20 delegates from Chicago, said Van Oostrum. His family is currently selling raffle tickets for a garden trellis made by the teen's father. Other gardened themed items will also be raffled off to help pay for the trip. He has already had cookie sales at the Alderwood Christian basketball games and is working on other fund-raisers. The raffle items will be displayed at Banner Bank and other Alderwood locations through March and April. Tickets are available at Banner Bank or from the Van Oostrum family. There is also an account in Van Oostrum's name where donations can be deposited. As a student ambassador, Van Oostrum will also be able to earn high school credits for his time in Europe"}
{"Id":"1101163637713","Title":"Business Briefs","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"2/24/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"1-Column NW Farm Credit Services returns money to clients Alderwood's office of Northwest Farm Credit Services has returned more than 294,300 back to its customers. The agency's interest reduction program returned 50 basis points back to its member-stockholders on theier average loan balance for 2003. The average check size was approximately 1,136. \"The feedback we have received over the past four years on this program has been very positive,\" said the manager of the Alderwood office, Mandy Minick. \"One of the benefits of doing business with Farm Credit is our commitment to return value to our shareholders our customers,\" she said. Northwest Farm Credit Services provides financing and related services to farmers, ranchers, commercial fishermen, timber producers and rural homeowners in Washington, Oregon, Idaho, Montana and Alaska. Nordberg earns insurance honors Gary Nordberg of Alderwood has been honored for his efforts in helping State Farm Mutual Auto Insurance Company earn top honors in a recent J.D. Power and Associates survey that ranks State Farm highest overall for customer satisfaction for auto collision repair. Nordberg is a State Farm agent serving Alderwood and the Lower Alderwood Valley. \"State Farm is in the business of helping customers manage the risks of everyday life and to recover from the unexpected,\" said John Bishop, vice president of operations for State Farm. \"Our claims employees and agents work hard to provide the best possible service to customers. \"State Farm recognizes these associates as the best in the nation and commends them as a true measure of our company's commitment to customer service,\" Bishop added. Prosser hospital adds second MRI scanning day PROSSER - Beginning March 2, MRI screening services will be available every Tuesday and Saturday from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. at Prosser Memorial Hospital. The Tuesday MRI service has been added to the previous Saturday-only schedule to accomodate increased patient need. MRI's are designed to assist doctors in assessing a patient's condition through use of high quality images that allow soft body tissue to be seen in great detail, from nearly every angle, and there are no know side effects. Patients with a physician referral wishing to schedule an MRI at the Prosser hospital should call 1-800-657-6647"}
{"Id":"1101163637917","Title":"Lady Grizzlies seeded fourth for Regionals","Author":"John Panni","Time":"2/23/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"WHAT HAPPENED? This is probably the question of the hour for fans of the Alderwood High School girls basketball team. After putting on one of their most beautiful displays of basketball skills this season last Tuesday against Grandview in a loser-out District tournament game, the Lady Grizzlies failed to show up this past weekend. Alderwood was blown out Friday night at Ellensburg 59-19 and then just couldn't hang Saturday with Prosser, losing 60-34. The pair of weekend losses put the Lady Grizzlies as the No. 4 Mid-Valley League seed and gave them a first-round Regional loser-out, match-up at Ellensburg this Tuesday night at 7 p.m. Friday night's game against the Lady Bulldogs was basically over in the first half. Ellensburg jumped out to a 30-13 lead. The Lady Bulldogs put their stamp on the game with a 29-6 second half showing. \"We took so many shots,\" said Alderwood Coach Leo Gomez. \"We came out and couldn't hit a basket.\" Gomez said Ellensburg was ready to play Friday night, as the Lady Bulldogs were geared up for a run at West Valley for the District title on Saturday. Alderwood wasn't helped any by Ellensburg's Tiffanie Ulmer, who had her way against the less experienced post players of the Lady Grizzlies. Ulmer had a game-high 18 points. \"They (Ellensburg) were just ready to play,\" said Gomez. \"The game got to the point where we couldn't do anything right.\" Saturday was much the same story for the Lady Grizzlies at Prosser. Gomez said Prosser was simply ready for Saturday's consolation pairing. \"They (Prosser) were a much different team (then when we beat them in the last game of the regular season),\" said Gomez. \"They put the pressure on and they never took it off. We shied away.\" The Lady Mustangs flexed their muscles in the first half, outscoring Alderwood 35-13. The Lady Grizzlies played a much better second half, but Gomez said it was too late by then. Gomez said the Lady Grizzlies are having trouble generating any offense. Gomez said he would like to see the same Alderwood team that took the floor last Tuesday against Grandview come out this Tuesday at Ellensburg. \"We just haven't showed up after Grandview's game and played how we can,\" said Gomez. \"Hopefully, tomorrow we step it up and come ready to play. 1 2 3 4 T Alderwood 5 8 2 4 19 Ellensburg 18 12 17 12 59 Scoring: Alderwood-Andrea Phillips 8, Erica Mendez 4, Bobi Haringa 4, Daniella Rivera 2, Kacee Jo Bootsma 1. Ellensburg-Tiffanie Ulmer 18. Rebounds: Hilary Van de Graaf 7, Bobi Haringa 6, Erica Mendez 5, Lanna Pangle 5, Andrea Phillips 4. 1 2 3 4 T Alderwood 9 4 15 8 34 Prosser 18 17 16 9 60 Scoring: Alderwood-Erica Mendez 11, Hilary Van de Graaf 7, Fatima Ruelas 4, Vanessa Alvarez 4, Andrea Phillips 4, Bobi Haringa 2, Lanna Pangle 2, Melissa Caballero 2. Prosser-Alex Lulp 14. Rebounds: Hilary Van de Graaf 7, Erica Mendez 7, Bobi Haringa 6"}
{"Id":"1101163638401","Title":"Five teens named Alderwood fire cadets","Author":"Melissa Browning","Time":"2/23/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"Five Alderwood teens ages 16 and 17 have been selected to participate in the newly formed Alderwood Fire Department Cadet program. According to Josh Roe, the coordinator for the program, two of the students, Michele Gonzalez and Jason Aguirre, attend Alderwood High School; two cadets, Justin Bos and Paul Groenewold, attend Alderwood Christian High School; and Amelia Mu oz is a PRIDE High School student. \"They all had good interviewing skills,\" Roe said of the five students selected to participate in the program. \"And when they were asked to show up they were all there, if not early.\" Roe added that the students each have career aspirations that the cadet program can help enhance. \"They all expressed a strong desire to help the community,\" said Roe. There is room for one additional cadet. The students each completed the five components making up the physical ability test to make the cut. They each had to carry a roll of hose, drag hose line 100-feet, lift rolls of hose, drag a dummy and complete a quarter mile jog, according to Roe. He said the cadet physical agility test is based on the test potential firefighter reserves have to complete. Gonzalez, 16, has an interest in becoming a nursing after high school. She is already preparing to get her certified nurses assistant license and looks forward to the opportunities the cadet program will open up. \"Being an EMT (emergency medical technician) is different than being a nurse,\" said Gonzalez. \"They get to be there first and help at the emergency scene.\" Besides learning more about the work of EMTs, Gonzalez said she wanted to be more active in the community. \"This will be a learning experience of how the fire department and EMT works,\" she added. A high school sophomore, Aguirre, 16, is the third generation in his family that's been in the Alderwood Fire Department. His grandfather was a volunteer for about 25 years and his father volunteered with the department for 14 years. \"I figured this would be a good experience,\" said Aguirre. During the application process, Aguirre said the hardest part was the interview portion with a panel of firefighters. Aguirre has aspirations of becoming a pharmacologist. Bos, 17, a senior at Alderwood Christian, plans to attend college in Moses Lake and study aviation next year. He said he feels participating in the cadet program will gear him up and provide opportunities to volunteer with the Moses Lake Fire Department, which has a resident program. The resident program allows volunteers to live at the fire department. Groenewold, 16, a sophomore in high school, has aspirations of either being an EMT or working in search and rescue for his career. He hopes to be able to learn the basics of the fire department while participating in the cadet program, which will include responding to calls to assisting in a supporting role. Mu oz, 17, would like to study medicine and possibly be a doctor safter she is finished with high school. She is currently working on her senior project, which is on the fire department and cadet program. The cadets will begin training tomorrow (Saturday), when they will learn CPR and first aid. . Melissa Browning can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or e-mail mbrowning@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101163638635","Title":"New motel slated for construction in Alderwood","Author":"John Panni","Time":"2/20/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"Tourists, business travelers or people who just want to get away from it all will have somewhere new to stay in Alderwood by the end of this summer. Tom Denlea purchased land owned by Gary Christensen, near the historic barn along Waneta Road overlooking Interstate 82. Denlea plans to build a new Best Western motel. Denlea plans to build a 70,000 square foot, two-story Best Western motel near the Alderwood landmark. Denlea said he will begin construction on the new motel as soon as possible, with expectations of having the latest in the popular chain of motels completed by the end of July. Denlea will be a managing partner in the newest Alderwood motel, as he is with the Prosser Best Western and the Best Western Ahtanum in Prosser. Denlea has been eyeing the piece of property for about 10 years. Denlea made final the purchase of the property from Christensen at the beginning of the year. \"It is an outstanding freeway location,\" said Denlea. \"It has outstanding visibility.\" The actual motel will take up about 38,000 square feet, covering two stories. The rest of the area will go towards parking and landscaping. The motel will consist of 55 rooms, said Denlea. The motel will be built up on the hill area just to the west of the barn. The motel will be located between the historic barn and a group of vineyards. Right now, Denlea is working with City of Alderwood officials on tying up some loose ends with permits and addressing other construction related issues. Denlea said as soon as those official matters are addressed and permits are issued he will begin construction. The motel will be built by A&A Development and Construction of Spokane. One of the reasons Denlea decided to build a new motel is that he sees potential for financial success in Alderwood. He cited a number of reasons for the decision to move forward with the motel. Denlea said economic development is on the upswing in the Alderwood area. He referred to the new Wal-Mart distribution center, but also added that he expects a lot more additional economic growth to take place in the Lower Valley in the form of restaurants and other businesses. Denlea also said the extensive tourism that hits the Lower Valley, especially during the wine touring season, was another factor in the decision to move forward with constructing the new motel. \"This area is growing,\" said Denlea. \"There is a lot of potential here. There is quite a bit of upside for tourism in the area.\" Denlea said he is looking forward to building a new motel in Alderwood. He said the actual opening date for the business this year will depend on when he is able to break ground for the facility. \"It will be a nice facility,\" said Denlea. \"I think it is a good project for Alderwood"}
{"Id":"1101163655339","Title":"13 ladies vying for Miss Cinco de Mayo crown","Author":"John Panni","Time":"2/20/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"After years of seeing a sparse turnout, Miss Cinco de Mayo organizers in Alderwood are gleaming with pride because of the number of young ladies competing for this year's crown. More than a dozen young women from Granger to Prosser will take to the stage at Alderwood High School Friday, April 23, for the right to wear the Miss Cinco de Mayo crown. The pageant will begin at 7 p.m. This year's Miss Cinco de Mayo, Amy Rubio, and her princess, Corina Cortez, will be relinquishing their crowns at the April 23 pageant. \"We are excited about the pageant this year,\" said Miss Cinco de Mayo Program Coordinator Carlos Maya. \"The pageant has grown so much.\" The last two years the Miss Cinco de Mayo program has seen sparse participation, with five girls competing for the crown each year. \"We are excited to have the largest crowd (of girls) come out yet,\" said Maya. The 13 young ladies competing for the Miss Cinco de Mayo crown this year are Gloria Rangel, Rachel Alvarez, Brenda Ortiz, Maribel Sanchez, Yesenia Jalifi, Rosie Moran, Iris Ruiz, Maria Macias, Anabel Diaz, Janet Gonzalez, Elizabeth Cervantes, Maria Casillas and Kathya Quijano. Rangel is a 17-year-old Alderwood resident. She will be performing a singing routine in the talent portion of the program. Alvarez is a 17-year-old student at Alderwood High School, where she is involved with the Grizzliettes drill team. Ortiz, 18, is also from Alderwood and she plans on performing a dance routine as her talent at the pageant. Sanchez, 16, is a student at Alderwood High School. She will be performing a dance number as her talent routine. Jalifi, 16, will also be performing a dance routine at the pageant. Moran, 17, is a member of the Grizzliettes dance team at Alderwood High School, where she also serves as the senior class and dance team treasurer. Ruiz is a 17-year-old Outlook resident. One of the club's the Alderwood High School student is involved in is Honor Society. She is also active in the Alderwood Police Explorers. Macias, 18, is also from Outlook. She plans to perform a dance routine as part of her performance in the April 23 pageant. Diaz, 15, is from Mabton. Diaz is heavily involved with church activities and loves to play the piano. Gonzalez, 17, will be representing Grandview. At Grandview High School she is involved with the dance/drill team. She will be performing a dance routine during the April 23 pageant. Cervantes is one of two young ladies from Granger signed up to participate. Cervantes, 17, is involved with cheerleading at her school. After high school she plans to attend college to study fashion designing. Casillas is an 18-year-old student at Granger High School. After high school Casillas is interested in going to college to study interior design. Maya said he is excited about the coming pageant. He said many of the young ladies competing can relate to the rich heritage associated with the Cinco de Mayo holiday. Cinco de Mayo, the fifth of May, marks an important date in the Mexican and Mexican American communities. The day marks the victory of the Mexican Army over the French at the Battle of Puebla. The victory holds significance because it stands as a symbol of Mexican unity and patriotism. Several of the young ladies competing have their own reasons for entering the Miss Cinco de Mayo pageant. \"I've always wanted to ride on a float,\" smiled Gonzalez. Gonzalez said she usually doesn't participate in many activities such as this and she thought it would help her meet new people and experience different things. \"Running for Miss Cinco de Mayo is like a dream come true for me,\" said Diaz. \"It is a great opportunity.\" Diaz said she has always looked up to such people as past Miss Cinco de Mayo royalty and wanted an opportunity to represent her community in the same role. \"I am very excited,\" said Cervantes. Cervantes said she felt like running for Miss Cinco de Mayo would give her an opportunity to represent her culture. Casillas shared many of the same reasons for running for Miss Cinco de Mayo. Casillas said she feels it is an opportunity to represent her culture in a positive light. The outgoing Miss Cinco de Mayo, Rubio, said the last year has been a great experience for her and that she may want to participate in other pageants now. Her princess, Corina Cortez, has also enjoyed the last year. Both of the current Miss Cinco de Mayo court members said they feel the program has grown a lot in the past year. Rubio said the court is now viewed on a level field as the other courts throughout the Valley. The past year has kept both Rubio and Cortez busy. They have completed various community service projects, such as staging a rally to support United States troops in Iraq, as well as putting together holiday care packages. Rubio said she will miss being Miss Cinco de Mayo, but said she is looking forward to turning over her crown. \"I like helping the community,\" said Rubio. \"But I want someone else to feel the same experiences.\" The new Miss Cinco de Mayo will receive a 500 scholarship and her royalty will receive 250 scholarships. Maya said there will also be opportunities to pursue other scholarships. During the next few weeks, each of the participants will be selling raffle tickets and gathering business sponsors to help pay for the expenses of the pageant and the Miss Cinco de Mayo float. At the pageant, each participant will be judged in the area of individual talent, evening gown wear and grade point average. Judges will also look for the responses of contestants during a spontaneous question period. \"Our pageants have been very exciting in the past,\" said Maya. \"Everything is really upbeat. We invite everybody to come out"}
{"Id":"1101163655636","Title":"Greyhounds earn a date with West Valley","Author":"John Panni","Time":"2/19/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"GRANDVIEW - Grandview's big man, Chris Mejia, had his usual solid night, but fans of the Greyhounds boys basketball team can send their thank you cards to Blake McFerran. McFerran donned his Superman cape and helped pull the struggling Greyhounds back into last night's first round, loser-out Mid-Valley League District tournament game against Ellensburg. After a dismal first half, the Greyhounds charged back in the last two quarters to win 53-49. The win propelled the Greyhounds into the Regional playoff tournament next week. The win also earned the Greyhounds a date with top seeded West Valley. The two teams will be looking to add another chapter to their classic rivalry as West Valley will host Grandview this Friday night at 5 p.m. Grandview looked as if it was going to get off to a nice start in the game, opening with an 8-2 run behind two baskets from Mejia and a couple of other buckets from McFerran and Gabe Reyes. But about three minutes into the game, the momentum turned south for the Greyhounds, as Grandview had trouble running any set defensive plays against Ellensburg. A couple of buckets by Ellensburg's Tony Quirk and a 3-pointer from teammate Josh Griffith gave the Bulldogs a 9-8 lead with 3:26 left in the first quarter. It would be a lead Ellensburg wouldn't relinquish for a while. Ellensburg's Nick Gray ended the Bulldogs' first quarter heroics when he drained a 3-pointer to give the Greyhounds a 14-9 lead. Ellensburg's Griffith drained a 3-pointer with 6:13 left in the second period to give the Bulldogs a 20-11 lead. Grandview had trouble boxing out in the second quarter, which led to several offensive putbacks by the Bulldogs. Grandview had a three-minute stretch in the second quarter where the Greyhounds couldn't get anything to fall. Mejia, though, came through by scoring all seven of Grandview's second quarter points. The Greyhounds trailed 25-16 at the break. Greyhound fans, though, saw a much different Grandview squad in the second half. The Greyhounds came out with a lot more energy. The comeback for the Greyhounds started when Anthony Andrews hit a 3-point bucket with 6:02 left in the third to pull Grandview within 26-19. But it was McFerran who had a key play with 4:27 to go. McFerran drove hard to the basket and was foul. McFerran converted the free throw for the 3-point play to pull Grandview within 28-22. In less than a minute following that play, McFerran took it to the rack off a steal and then hit a nice little jumper to put Grandview within two points at 28-26. Mejia put the Greyhounds ahead at 29-28 with 2:37 remaining in the third by canning a 3-pointer. Nick Gray was huge down the stretch in the third quarter for the Bulldogs. Gray bounced off Mejia with under 30 seconds left to hit a shot and then later hit a free throw to put the Bulldogs ahead 32-29. With under 10 seconds to go, Grandview's Brandon Artz drained a long two-point shot to cut Ellensburg's lead to 32-31. In the fourth quarter, James Vela was instrumental early for the Greyhounds. Vela put a rebound back in and then drained a 3-pointer off an assist from McFerran to put Grandview ahead 36-34 with 6:50 left in the game. The Bulldogs climbed back to take a 39-36 lead with 5:23 to go, but McFerran hit a beautiful off balanced jumper to put Grandview within a point. After a bucket from Andrews, Mejia hit a 3-pointer with 3:28 to go to put Grandview up 43-42. McFerran gave the Greyhounds the lead for good when he was fouled inside with 2:55 to go. McFerran converted the 3-point play to give Grandview a 46-42 lead. Grandview finally got into the bonus with 2:09 left in the game. Mejia hit six free throws down the stretch and Andrews added another to put the Bulldogs away. Grandview's defensive pressure, which was dominate in the second half, led to 20 points off 18 turnovers. The Bulldogs had 9 points off seven turnovers. The Bulldogs outrebounded Grandview 32 to 22, but Ellensburg could only manage 9 second chance points. The Bulldogs grabbed an impressive 25 defensive boards. The Greyhounds statistically dominated the second half. After going 0-for-6 in the first half, Grandview hit 4-of-8 3-pointers. The Greyhounds were also 9-of-12 from the free throw line in the second half and 12-for-25 from the field. The Greyhounds hit 11-of-16 free throws for the game while Ellensburg made 8-of-15. \"I was happy with the first three minutes of the game and the second half,\" said Grandview Coach Scott Parrish. \"But we didn't have a lot of intensity during that stretch in between. They just didn't look like the Grandview Greyhound team we are used to seeing.\" Parrish said it was nice to see McFerran step up for the Greyhounds. Parrish said McFerran and Mejia were both solid for Grandview last night. Parrish said Grandview is ready to go into West Valley Friday night. \"We will just go in and give it a shot and see what happens,\" said Parrish. \"Hopefully, we will catch a couple of breaks.\" . John Panni can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or email him at mPanni@hawkpress.com 1 2 3 4 T Ellensburg 14 11 7 17 49 Grandview 9 7 15 22 53 Scoring: Grandview-Chris Mejia 23, Blake McFerran 14, James Vela 6, Anthony Andrews 6, Brandon Artz 2, Gabe Reyes 2. Ellensburg-Riley Sivak 16. Rebounds: Chris Mejia 5. Assists: James Vela 4. Steals: James Vela 5, Blake McFerran 3"}
{"Id":"1101163655870","Title":"Seniors dominate 4.00 GPA list at Alderwood High","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"2/19/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"Of the 38 students named to the 4.00 grade point average honor roll for the first semester of the 2003-04 academic year at Alderwood High School, nearly half are seniors. The 18 seniors who scored perfect grades for the first semester include Abigail Anderson, Tasha Axmaker, Joshua Barr, Nehemias Chalma, Jeffrey Davis, Derek Dolan, Denise Flores, Stacey Gorski, Alaina Hull, Amy Kilian, Emily Kresse, Mitch Lathen, Maira Mendoza, Rebecca Razey, Monica Sambrano, Julie Taylor, Deann Trautman and John Van Wingerden. The AHS junior class has eight students named to the 4.00 GPA honor roll. They straight-A students are Michael Alanis, Linda Bingham, Lizeth Chiprez, Chelsea Durfey, Emily Wells, Teresa Juarez, Marika McNerney and Brenden Scott. Six sophomores are listed on the all-A's honor roll. They include Jesus Alquicira, Christina Linde, Jaime Lopez, Danny Plesha, Cassandra Romero and James Van Wingerden. The straight-A freshman group for the first semester is comprised of Rachelle Durfey, Elizabeth Estrada, Jillian Jetter, Leslie Wells, Samuel Nevarez and Sterling Scott. Numerous other AHS students have been named to the regular honor roll for the first semester. To qualify for that distinction, students had to maintain at least a 3.00 grade point average. The regular honor roll students from the freshman class include Laura Aguiar, Laura Alvarez, Veronica Alvarez, Rick Amaro, Jeremy Arola, Arlyn Avalos, Reginald Avalos, Marco Ballesteros, Sonia Bravo, Leticia Camacho-Reyes, Heather Cant, Monica Cantu, Tyler Carpenter, Anayelli Casas, Felipe Ciriano, Elizabeth Cisneros, Carly Dahlstrom, Natasha Daniel, Ryan Engel, Brenda Espindola, Amelia Esquivel, Rebekah Fernandez, Mathew Fluaitte, Sadrac Franco, Felicia Martinez, Sherran Martinez, Ariel Garza, Janice Hale, Renee Hernandez, Jarred Huenefeld, Julia Huerta, Paula Jimenez, Elizabeth Kennedy, Christine Kim, David Knee, Katie Knee, Jacob Kresse, Anayeli Lopez, Antonio Magana, Marlene Magana, Wayne Mandrell, Jon Martin, Joshua Martinez, Marina Martinez, Dianna Mendoza, Jose Meza, Crystal Moore, Vanessa Morfin, Anestacia Olivarez, William Omlin, Hannah Paulakis, Elayne Perez, Laura Perez, Rosa Picazo, Megan Polo, Maria Ramirez, Rosa Ramirez, Anita Ramos, Roberto Ramos, Nayeli Rodriguez, Soledad Ruiz, Mallory Saldana, Matthew Salinas, Jaime Sambrano, Freddy Sanchez, Sandra Sanchez, Sarah Sanchez, Samantha Sartin, Tyler Scherer, Dane Schmick, Francisco Solis, Veronica Tlatelpa, Ana Torres, Kerri Urrutia, Santa Valdivia, Hunter Van de Graaf, Audra Vasquez, Corrin Veiga, Roberto Vidales, Jake Wavrin, Levi Wiersma, Samuel Wise, Diana Yanez and Eduardo Zaragosa. The AHS sophomore class is represented on the regular honor roll by Jason Aguirre, Grecia Alanis, Daniel Albrecht, Veronica Almeida, Josue Alvarez, Josh Bardell, Sunny Barnes, Crystal Barraza, Bones Boboth, Aurelio Bueno, Yanet Candido, Jesus Casas, Austin Copenhaver, Jacqueline DeRuyter, Bianca Diaz, Jesus Diaz, Megan Downing, Tyson Driesen, Jessica Espinoza, Maggie Fernandez, Maria Flores, Rachel Flores, Gloria Galvan-Romero, Miguel Galvan-Velez, Andrea Martinez, Jose Gomez, Miguel Graham, Meghan Grubenhoff, Jessica Gudino, Amanda Guillen, Celia Gutierrez, Bobi Haringa, Zachary Hathaway, Amber Hazzard, Adrian Hernandez, Darren Huenefeld, Frank Ibarra, Ariana Jimenez, Nicole Johnson, Cassie Jolliff, Gabriela Juarez, Jose Lara, Jessica Loma, Joaquin Lopez, Leticia Lujan, Ariana Macias, Jerika Maratinez, Lucero Martinez, Sarah Martinez, Erica Mendoza, Jessica Mendoza, Capri Miles, Bailey Morris, Perla Ortega, Laura Ortiz, Eron Ramirez, Jesus Ramirez, Maria Ramos, Stephanie Rand, Markus Rollinger, Vanessa Roman, Alma Romero, Fatima Ruelas, Jose Salinas, Alvaro Sanchez, Victor Sanchez, Brian Sanderson, Gerardo Serna, Derrick Simmons, Victoria Solis, Adam Stamschror, Matt Thomas, Jennifer Tobin, Kyle Tyler, Sandra Valles, Stephanie Vasquez, Griselda Villalobos, Lance Warner, Lacey Yanez, Joel Zakahi and Jordan Zavala. Juniors qualifying for regular honor roll accolades include Candelario Alvarez, Gerardo Alvarez, Vanessa Alvarez, Amy Amaro, Teresa Baldovinos, Jacob Barr, Geneveve Barrios, Jonathan Beals, Kacee Bootsma, Pedro Brito, Lionel Candido, Tony Cantu, Megan Cornelius, Maria Corona, Marina Cruz, Tyler Cullen, Jeramie Drollinger, Sonia Flores, Rocio Galvez, Mirian Martinez, Edgar Garibaldo, Skyllar Gonzalez, Jon Griffin, Cris Guevara, Eric Guillen, Jared Holman, Yesenia Jalifi, Alex Jetter, Travis Johnson, Kevin Lick, Sofia Lopez, Maribel Madrigal, Angela Marin, Asuncion Marquez, Jeffrey Martin, Devina Martinez, Mercedes Martinez, Erica Mendez, Rachel Mendez, Danny Mendoza, Rodolfo Meza, Riley Morris, Miryam Navarro, Christopher Newberry, Lanna Pangle, Juan Pasillas, Viridiana Pasillas, Andrea Phillips, Johnny Plesha, Nancy Quinonez, Kasi Puente, Magaly Ramirez, Delia Ramos, Daniel Rios, Jessie Romero, Josh Ross, Alejandra Ruiz, Erica Ruiz, Anthony Salazar, Maria Sanchez, Teresa Sanchez, Esmeralda Sandoval, Victoria Sarmiento, Luke Schilperoort, Reid Schilperoort, Joseph Schwartz, Jeffrey Stamschror, Jake Thomas, Esteban Trujillo, Mark Uribe, Maria Vargas, Rudy Velasquez, Daniel Waterman, Aurora Weaver, Evan Wu, Noe Zamarron, Jessica Zamorano and Jose Zepeda. The AHS senior class members earning regular honor roll status for the first semester are Luz Abundiz, Guadalupe Angel, Griselda Arias, Maria Barcenas, Priscilla Bazaldua, Diana Blanco, Jessica Burgard, Jennifer Call, Mayra Carrillo, Araceli Casas, Catalina Castro, Wendy Chiprez, Michael Christensen, Cassandra Coder, Dionne Cohan, Holly Daire, Ricardo Diaz, Joe Evans, Joe Fernandez, Roxanne Fernandez, Amber Fox, Noemi Galvan, Luis Galvan-Velez, Maria Galvez, Lizette Martinez, Matthew Garza, Helen Gilleland, Isley Gonzalez, Jennifer Gonzalez, Robert Grimmer, Suleime Guzman, Erin Hall, Jacob Hazzard, Anna Henry, Juan Hernandez, Herman Hitchcock-Lain, Nicholas Howat, Brionna Hughes, Branimit Janjevic, Beatriz Jimenez, Jennifer Wells, Lindsay Wells, Jared Jongsma, Frank Kearney, Tanner Kellogg, Norma Lopez, Jaime Lua, Stephanie Luke, Megan Maltos, Holli Mandrell, Humberto Martinez, Laura Matson, Julian Mendez, Hector Mendoza, Tiburcio Mora, Rosie Moran, Cody Morrow, Andrea Noriega, Luis Ochoa, Brenda Ortiz, Omar Ortiz, Reece Paulus, Kathya Quijano, Janie Ramirez, Steven Ramirez, Elizabeth Ramos, Jesus Ramos, Marisol Reynoso, Cami Richardson, Leslie Riojas, Macario Romero, Raymond Romero, Elizabeth Ruiz, James Sanchez, Martin Sanchez, Mayra Sandoval, Maria Schiekel, Eliazar Sierra, Geoffrey Wells, Lester Wells, Emily Stamschror, Steffani Startup, Judy Taylor, Celia Torres, Maria Valencia, Kyle Van de Graaf, Luis Vargas, Victoria Vargas, Pedro Velez, Guadalupe Vidaurri, Ryan Webster and Elias Wise"}
{"Id":"1101163656104","Title":"Ethics topic of discussion at Daybreak Rotary meeting","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"2/18/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"For the past two years Alderwood resident and pastor of Our Saviour's Lutheran Church Ron Jetter has been spending time serving as part of the Alderwood School District Ethics Committee as a representative of the Alderwood Ministerial Association. Jetter, who served as the speaker during Wednesday morning's meeting of the Alderwood Daybreak Rotary Club, said the hardest thing about ethics is defining it. \"Our job is to put it into words,\" Jetter said of the committee. He said when the Ethics Committee was first created two years ago, it was created with the idea that teaching students to read and write isn't enough. Through their education students should also learn what is ethical, moral behavior. Jetter told Rotarians that the Ethics Committee is an organization made up of eight people. Four people on the committee are school district employees, including Alderwood Supt. Aaron Bones, as well as representatives from the school district's administration, classified and certified staff. The remaining four members of the committee are made up of community members. When the group was formed, Jetter said one of the first tasks presented to it by the school board was to create a code of ethics for the district. Jetter said the code of ethics is three-fold. He explained first, staff members need to set a good example for the students, setting the bar high for excellence. The next component is the students. \"We want them know they're expected to achieve, and to treat others with respect,\" Jetter said. The final part of the three-fold plan involves parents. Jetter said the committee had a difficult time deciding whether or not the school district had any right to tell parents what is expected of them. In the end, Jetter said, the parent component has proven to be one of the most important portions of the code of ethics. He said parents play a vital role in supporting children through school involvement, as well as helping them make ethical decisions. Jetter said since the creation of the Ethics Committee the school board had brought several important issues to them, including whether or not armed police officers should be on school campuses. \"We spent a few weeks on that,\" Jetter said, noting that the committee took time to talk to the local police chief, as well as the student resource officer. Jetter said the group has also tackled the issue of branding, which is when a school district signs an exclusive contract to market a particular product on school grounds. The most recent issue the Ethics Committee has taken on involves the athletic code. Jetter explained that there is a portion of the athletic code that deals with the use of alcohol, tobacco and drugs and what happens if a student is found to be using the substances or found in the vicinity of minors who are using the substances. \"Ninety percent of the issues that come to us have nothing to do with books and teaching,\" Jetter said. . Ellie Olmsen can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or e-mail her at eOlmsen@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101163656339","Title":"Grandview 'super' elects to retire","Author":"Melissa Browning","Time":"2/18/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"GRANDVIEW - As of June 25, 2004, Grandview School District Superintendent John Mathis will be retiring permanently. Mathis will be leaving the post he has held for seven years at the highlight of his career. \"This is the best job I've ever had,\" said the 34-year educational veteran. \"The district is large enough where you have resources, but it's small enough that one person can make a difference.\" He changed, with permission of the Grandview School Board, the form of administration in Grandview. The district went from a top-down form to one that's more participatory, involving teachers in the decisions for their schools. Since Mathis has been superintendent each building has developed a site-council, which helps make the decisions for the schools. A district-wide curriculum council has been developed and teachers are taking a more active role in selecting the materials taught by teachers. \"The teachers are very supportive,\" said Mathis. Teachers were even involved in the design process of the buildings in the district, most of which underwent heavy remodeling or were replaced while Mathis has been superintendent. Mathis made official his resignation to the Grandview School Board at the Jan. 12, 2004 meeting. He retired two years ago and has been on the retire-rehire program, which allows teachers and administrators to contract with school districts for services after retirement. But Mathis will no longer be contracted with to provide services. The Grandview School Board has already begun the search process to find his successor. The school board has hired a consulting firm to look for candidates for his replacement. The firm has talked to the administration, teachers and community to learn what kind of superintendent they would like see take over Mathis' role. He said the decision to retire is driven by the desire to be closer to his children and grandchildren. \"I want to be more active in their lives,\" said the former high school English teacher. \"When it comes to grandchildren, it's a real motivating factor.\" Mathis started teaching in 1969 in Toppenish. After earning his high school administration credentials, he worked for the school as a half-time English teacher and half-time assistant principal. It was in Arlington that he had his first full-time assistant principal position. He then served as high school principal in the community for about 10 more years. Mathis made the decision to go back to school again and earn his superintendent credentials. He was hired as a superintendent in Kettle Falls, Idaho before moving to Grandview. Mathis said that if he were looking for his replacement he would look for an instructional leader, a person who really knows teaching and instruction. He said being well schooled in student assessments is as important as it is continuing with the really strong financial condition of the district. \"I hope they have a background in a participatory style of management,\" he added. In his seven years, Mathis has overseen the building of two new schools and the total remodel of two more in the Grandview School District. \"We've either replaced or added on 275,000 square feet of instructional space,\" he said. Education has also gotten better. The district has revised the K-sixth grade science program. \"We went to an inquiry based model with a hands-on approach to science,\" said Mathis. Kindergartners are now attending full-day programs and pre-school has been added to the district. A new K-10 math program and an elementary school reading program have been implemented all in his time in the district. With all of the changes, Mathis said there haven't been many changes on the school board. One school board member has moved outside the city in his seven years with the school district. \"They allowed all of the changes,\" said Mathis. \"Without them it wouldn't have been done.\" . Melissa Browning can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or e-mail mbrowning@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101163656573","Title":"No one grabs lead on downtown revitalization efforts","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"2/18/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"GRANDVIEW - Both the City of Grandview and the local Chamber of Commerce support the idea of revitalizing Grandview's downtown corridor. However, exactly who will take the lead is something that has yet to be decided. Downtown revitalization is something the City of Grandview has looked at during two of its recent meetings. Tuesday night, Council members asked representatives from the local Chamber of Commerce to join in the discussion. \"Downtown revitalization is a high priority in this community,\" said City Administrator Jim Sewell. \"But the chamber needs to take the lead.\" Grandview Chamber of Commerce President Jim Herriman reported to Council members that the Chamber is currently in a state of rebuilding both its membership and its involvement in the community. \"Our motto this year is 'More in 2004,'\" Herriman said. \"We're striving for the chamber of commerce to be self sufficient and a very professional organization in this community.\" Herriman said the issue of downtown revitalization is one the Chamber board of directors discussed at its last meeting. \"Everyone on the chamber is for it,\" Herriman said. But, he added that since the chamber is in the process of rebuilding, it doesn't have a lot of resources, as far as taking the lead on a project the size of downtown revitalization. Instead, he said he would like to see someone put in charge. A single person whose sole duty it would be to drive the downtown revitalization project. \"We would like to see someone put in that position that has that desire,\" Herriman said. \"[Someone] to fill in the gap when we're sitting in our offices running our businesses.\" Sewell said another route the city and chamber can take when it comes to downtown revitalization is hiring a consulting firm to lay the groundwork. \"But it's going to cost,\" Sewell said, noting that it might be possible to acquire grants to help cover the cost of the consultant. Herriman then pointed to a packet of information presented by the city about past revitalization efforts. In 1987, an economic development plan was created for the community, outlining objectives that included revitalizing downtown and increasing tourism. The plan, which was unveiled in 1989, included improvements to the intersection at Second and Division streets, adding directional signage to Main Street, constructing a civic plaza and putting in trees. \"We've already done the consulting,\" Herriman said. \"We spent the money already to develop a plan.\" However, Councilman Robert Morales noted that the climate of downtown Grandview has changed since 1987. He said before the plans from 17 years ago could be used, an assessment would have to be done to ensure that what would have worked nearly two decades ago would still work today. Sewell suggested hiring someone to put together some preliminary guidelines for a revitalization plan as a way to ensure that everyone involved is on the same page. He also noted that the community has an important resource in Yakima Valley Community College, suggesting that perhaps students from the school could help do some of the legwork for the project. Mayor Mike Bren said the important thing right now is determining whether or not downtown revitalization is something the businesses located in the downtown corridor would support. \"They should all be involved in what downtown should look like,\" Bren said. He asked Herriman if he thought the Chamber could work to contact local business owners and ask them to take a look at downtown and decide if revitalization is something they would support, and if so what they are looking for in a revitalization plan. \"We want to see the downtown revitalized,\" Herriman said. \"[But] we want to see the chamber revitalized too.\" Herriman said the downtown revitalization project is something the Chamber can't take on by itself. \"It's going to take everybody,\" he said. \"I don't think it should just fall on one organization.\" Bren told Herriman that the project is something the city is not trying to \"dump\" on the Chamber. Instead, he said the city simply wants to find out if it's something local businesses are interested in. \"I think there's a heck of an opportunity here,\" Sewell said. \"I think the more we put into it at this juncture the better off we'll be in the future.\" In the end, Herriman said the Chamber will work to gather as much information as possible from downtown business owners, and help to shape the plan for downtown revitalization. . Ellie Olmsen can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or e-mail her at eOlmsen@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101163659667","Title":"Beyond the Norm-Mel","Author":"Melissa Browning","Time":"2/18/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"Nearly everyone wishes time would go by slower or that they were younger. There are very few who are content to grow old. Just go to the store and look at how many kinds of face creams with age-defying additives there are. Or listen to the beauty secrets of the stars. I have heard one star say she puts petroleum jelly on her face daily to combat the effects of aging. No one wants to get old. Just about everyone has an age they would like to be and stay at, whether that be 18, 21 or 25. I'd have to say that if I had a choice I would want to be young enough to go through school again. I wouldn't want to take the WASL, but with all of the new thoughts on education I can't help but wonder what school would be like the second time around. Rather than learning conceptually, students are taking a hands-on approach to learning. I like learning hands-on. Some of my favorite classes in school like biology, photography and physics, were hands-on, but all of those classes I took later in my educational career, mostly at college. I like tearing things apart and trying to figure out how to put them back together. Of course, it doesn't always go as planned. I have torn a bike apart and was unable to fix it. There were just too many parts and I couldn't remember off the top of my head how they all went back together. As far as learning goes, I still have issues with fractions, but with a measuring cup in hand, I can usually figure it out. Don't get me wrong, I had some great teachers, but as there has been a stronger emphasis on different learning methods in recent years, I have determined that learning could have been easier for me. Even with all the stress caused by the \"No Child Left Behind Act\" and the WASL, the kids of today are getting a great education. Teachers are learning to be better teachers and administrators are taking a hands-on approach to bettering education in their schools. Principals are no longer just disciplinarians, but are involved in their students' educational opportunities. Students no longer dread a visit with the principal, rather they often feel privileged to see the head administrator. In talking with Mabton Principal Julie Schmick, I learned that she is a positive influence in her student's lives and she has gotten back into a more educational role before school and during lunch. She meets with almost all of the students during those times. Other students in other grades request to get involved in the programs Schmick oversees. That amazes me! Kids want to learn. They want to spend time with caring adults. They want to be a part of something educational. That's what I wish school had been like when I was younger. I wish that instead of counting down the days until the end of the school year, that my thirst for knowledge was so unquenchable that I was dreading the last day of school. . Melissa Browning can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or e-mail mbrowning@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101163661589","Title":"Clark recieves recognition for mentoring work","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"2/17/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"Working to promote the medical field amongst high school students is something Mid-Valley Community Clinic's Irma Clark has been doing since moving to the Yakima Valley in June 2003. Clark, a physician's assistant, said upon her arrival at the local clinic she was approached to take part in Project HOPE, which helps introduce young people to the field of medicine. \"I had wonderful people who mentored and trained me,\" Clark said. \"I hope to do the same.\" So far Clark has worked with one student through Project HOPE, but that is just the tip of the iceberg as far as Clark is concerned. She said she is expecting to have more students to mentor over the summer and said she will begin mentoring three students from PRIDE High School in the next couple of weeks. Clark said when working with a student she tries to give them a dose of what it's like to work at the clinic. She said with patient permission the students she is mentoring get a chance to come in with Clark during examinations and check-ups, observing how Clark interacts with her patients. She said the students also have a chance to ask questions during the experience. \"I'm assisting them in learning what we do at the clinic,\" Clark said. Through Project HOPE Clark works with any given student for at least 15 hours, teaching them what she does every day, as well as providing them a basic understanding of how the medical world works. Although Clark is new in her experience with Project HOPE, she is no stranger to serving as a teacher. Clark said she has experience through the University of Washington and Olympia College helping nurses make the transition from nurse to nurse practioner to physician's assistant. Clark was recently recognized for her work with Project HOPE. The Mid-Valley Community Clinic was presented a plaque for Clark's participation in the project"}
{"Id":"1101163661823","Title":"'82 AHS grad finds Iraqi people appreciative of American troops' efforts","Author":"Bob Story","Time":"2/17/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"A mother's eyes. They can speak volumes without a single word being uttered. Such is the case when you meet Alderwood's Elsie Bell, if, that is, the subject of her son, Jim, comes up in conversation. A stranger meeting Mrs. Bell for the first time might describe her as reserved...she chooses her words carefully and speaks directly, to the point. There is no effusing of flowery descriptives. A no-nonsense type person, yes, those meeting her for the first time might agree. Yet, mention son Jim, and her eyes display a pride that books upon books of words could hardly describe. These days, her son answers to James. Actually, his official moniker is U.S. Army Lieutenant Colonel James Bell, who is stationed out of Fort Hood, Texas. That's not to say he is presently living there, though, with wife Sheri and 4-year-old son Warren as was the case at the beginning of the year. No, Mrs. Bell's son is now overseas, serving his country in Iraq with thousands of other American troops. An Army communications officer, he departed for the Mideast the first week of January. Mrs. Bell can't, or maybe elects not to, tell you what her son's duties are in Iraq. She has been sent photos of James, standing atop former presidential palaces overlooking the city of Baghdad, even sitting in a former throne once occupied by Saddam Hussein. She readily displays the photos when asked, gleaming with an unspoken admiration for the handsome, chiseled soldier that appears in the colored computer prints. Mrs. Bell doesn't offer up that her son, after graduating from Alderwood High School in 1982, went on to graduate with the 1986 class at West Point. She'll inform you of that fact if you ask her point-blank, but don't expect her to openly brag about son James' accomplishments. Not, unless, you can read a person's eyes. A chance meeting with Mrs. Bell also won't reveal that her son led a very active life while attending high school in Alderwood. She makes no mention to his being a member of the school's National Honor Society, Science Club or Latin Club. Oh sure, she'll confirm it for you if you ask, but to let escape such tidbits into a conversation with a stranger might come across as bravado. No, she opts not to mention the pride she felt years ago when son Jim took on one of the lead roles, as Snoopy, when Alderwood High School thespians staged the production of \"You're a Good Man Charlie Brown.\" Mrs. Bell also remains spendidly mum when it comes to her son's other prep accomplishments, such as being named to the school's Student Council, or his time on the Grizzly golf team, or his days playing with the Grizzly band, or even him being named the \"Most Spirited Boy\" during 1980 homecoming week festivities. To a stranger, those honors her son accomplished are best discovered in an old AHS yearbook. But what Mrs. Bell will readily share are the messages, via e-mails, she now receives from son James. She points with pride to his words, that he is one of the American soldiers who is helping to liberate the people of Iraq. \"Suffice to say, we serve here to repudiate all that Saddam stood for and to help the Iraqi people achieve the stability and peace that has been denied to them for so long,\" he writes to his mother. \"There are many good things happening here that aren't 'newsworthy',\" the lieutenant colonel continues on in his message to his mother. And he quickly adds, \"The Iraqi people I've met so far have been appreciative of our presence.\" Perhaps it is her son's involvement in returning to the Iraqi people their independence, their lives free of Hussein's torture chambers and death squads, that makes Mrs. Bell's eyes speak out with fierce pride. Perhaps, it's just knowing that her son James continues to utilize his life to the best of his ability, maximizing the opportunities he has been presented. Mrs. Bell won't tell you in so many words, but her eyes...yes, the eyes, reveal what only a mother can feel towards a son who has accomplished so much. . Bob Story,can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or e-mail him at bstory@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101163661840","Title":"High occupancy rate a sign of improvement in Alderwood","Author":"John Panni","Time":"2/17/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"Apartments in Alderwood, until recently suffering a severe economic downturn, has achieved near 100-percent occupancy at prevailing market rates -- a remarkable performance since the property was purchased by the City. One development, the Parks, which has 364 units, was at 48-percent occupancy in August 2002 when the City took ownership of the five complexes of apartments and townhouses and began the conversion process that became The Villages. All new leases since then have been to residents renting prevailing market rates without any form of government assistance whatsoever. More than 180 new residents moved into The Parks during the past six months at an incredible record-setting pace for the area. All new applicants are required to complete an extensive screening and criminal-background check process prior to move-in. \"This enormously successful lease-up effort indicates a very strong demand that is present in Alderwood for safe, clean and affordable rental housing in a quality environment,\" said Albert Norris, President and Chief Operating Officer of Rohtuh, Inc., which is managing the redevelopment efforts at The Villages. \"We are truly moving toward a quality mixed-income community at The Villages that will be a sustainable development to be enjoyed by the residents of Alderwood for years to come.\""}
{"Id":"1101163685386","Title":"Greyhound boys finish fourth in Mid-Valley play","Author":"John Panni","Time":"2/16/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"The Grandview High School boys basketball team ended its regular season campaign with stops in two of the toughest places to play in the Mid-Valley League. Grandview traveled to Ellensburg Friday night, winning 52-42. But, the Greyhounds saw the Mid-Valley League's No. 2 seed slip out of their hands the following night in Selah. The Vikings pounded Grandview in the second half on their way to a 48-34 victory. The loss by Grandview on Saturday coupled with a win by Hanford on Saturday gave the Greyhounds the No. 4 seed. Hanford lost in overtime to Selah on Friday night. The Falcons and Grandview finished with identical 9-5 league records, but Hanford won both the head-to-head match-ups during the regular season against the Greyhounds, grabbing the No. 3 seed. The Greyhounds ended the regular season 14-6 overall. Grandview will now host Ellensburg, the league's No. 5 seed, this Wednesday at 7 p.m. in a first-round loser-out game. \"We played really well,\" said Grandview Coach Scott Parrish of Friday's win over Ellensburg. \"We did a nice job of shutting them down.\" Parrish said Ellensburg couldn't keep up with the much quicker Greyhounds, which led to a lot of transition baskets. The Greyhounds built a comfortable 26-19 lead at the half. The key for Grandview in the first half was it was 11-of-14 performance from the free throw line. For the game, Grandview outscored Ellensburg 22 to 9 at the free throw line. Despite outscoring Grandview 16-15 in the third quarter, the Bulldogs didn't shoot very well from the field for the game, going just 15-of-41. Ellensburg missed a lot of 3-point opportunities in the second half, going 1-of-8 from downtown. The closest Ellensburg got in the game was 43-41 in the third quarter. Grandview went on an 11-7 run in the fourth to finish out the game. Parrish said his team did a nice job of getting some easy buckets. Chris Mejia had another nice outing for the Greyhounds with 15 points. Anthony Andrews had 13. James Vela led Grandview on the glass with nine rebounds. Parrish said Ellensburg didn't play badly, the Greyhounds were able to just beat the Bulldogs off the dribble. \"We also played pretty good defense,\" said Parrish. Saturday night against Selah was a different story for Grandview, which had just 11 second half points. \"We really struggled in the second half,\" said Parrish. \"We were real tentative.\" The game started out promising for Grandview, which went on a 5-0 run at the beginning. Travis Pendleton, though, fired back for the Vikings, scoring 11 of his 16 points in the first quarter. Selah outscored Grandview 18-10 in the opening period and 13-12 in the second quarter. Parrish said Selah's defense smothered his players in the second half. Parrish added that the Vikings were all over Mejia and Andrews, who finished with 5 and 11 points, respectively. \"We didn't get the ball inside,\" said Parrish. \"And they (Selah) rebounded well.\" Erik Bell's 25 points didn't help the Greyhounds any either. Parrish said he feels his team will rebound from Saturday's loss. He expects Grandview to do well Wednesday night against Ellensburg. . John Panni can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or email him at mPanni@hawkpress.com 1 2 3 4 T Grandview 12 14 15 11 52 Ellensburg 9 10 16 7 42 Scoring: Grandview-Chris Mejia 15, Anthony Andrews 13, Blake McFerran 9, Gabe Reyes 8. Ellensburg-Jason Brozovich 17. Rebounds-James Vela 9. Assists: Blake McFerran 6. 1 2 3 4 T Grandview 10 13 4 7 34 Selah 18 13 6 11 48"}
{"Id":"1101163685620","Title":"AHS drama club play to take stage for five-day run","Author":"Jamie Smart","Time":"2/13/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"A story of jealousy, power and betrayal set to music is the foundation for the Alderwood High School Drama Club's presentation of Joseph and the Amazing Technicolor Dreamcoat. Under the direction of Maisy Sylling, with aid from Heidi Hellner-Gomez, opening night for the high school singers, dancers and actors will be Thursday, Feb. 19, on the stage of the Alderwood High School auditorium. Leading the cast as Joseph is Robert Grimmer, with Jennifer Wells as the narrator. Mitch Lathen plays Jacob, Joseph's father, who is devastated when his sons decide to sell their youngest brother to a band of traveling traders. Reporting Joseph's death to their father sets into motion one of the most touching stories in Biblical history about family betrayal. The treacherous brothers will be played both male and female actors, including Dane Wells, Jose Esquivel, Luke Spilles, Rebecca Razey, Brian Harvey, Alaina Hull, Anna Henry, Jessica Fuller, Tony Magana, Nikki Castro and Leslie Wells. Jon Martin and Keely LaCombe will play Adam and Eve. Jacob's wives include Aurora Weaver, Estela Florez, Amber Guy and Chelsea Clements. Ishmaelites will be played by Danny Mendoza, Alex Jetter and Richard McCardle. Dancers include Sherran Martinez, Heather Van Cobach, Dione Cohan, Jessica Zamorano, Kat Bingham and Marika McNerney. The brothers' wives will include Alyssa McMinimee, Courtney Cohan, Keely LaCombe, Jillian Jetter, Laura Matson, Lizzy Shehata, Brionna Hughes, Erendida Manzo, Marika McNerney, Tabitha DeRuyter and Heather Van Corbach. Alderwood High School teacher Troy Whittle will be the lone adult actor in the production, playing the Pharaoh. The nearly all-student production is aided by musical director Katie Haney and Dorothy Cohu. Student stage managers are Janelle Kilian and Matt Thomas. Lighting technicians include Jeff Davis and Ryan Webster, with Jeff Martin handling sound. Jessica Schilperoot and Norma Lopez are in charge of make-up. The lobby crew under the direction of house manager Angela Marin includes Abi Anderson, Heather Deaton and Meagan Kraxenberger. Also working behind the scenes are students Jaymee Arevalo, Kristina Bobadilla, Brian Campbell, Tony Cantu, Andrew Cervantes, Angela Hansen, Beatriz Jimenez, Joaquin Lopez, Kari Mandrell, Maria Martinez, Mathew Martinez, Stacie McIntire, Riley Morris, Perla Ortega, Lanna Pangle, Cami Richardson, Juan Rivera, Marissa Ruiz, Jesus Sanchez, Aaron Saunders, Mark Uribe and Ana Valencia. With music by award-winning Andrew Lloyd Webber with lyrics by Tim Rice, the AHS drama club production is one families will want to attend. The AHS Drama Club will present the popular Broadway musical in five-performances - Feb. 19, 20, 21, 27 and 28, with the curtain going up all five nights at 7 p.m. Ticket prices are set at 5 for adults and 3 for senior citizens and students. . Jamie Smart can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or you can e-mail her at jSmart@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101163685855","Title":"Lower Valley man serves up full-length feature film starring local faces, locations","Author":"Jamie Smart","Time":"2/13/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"KENNEWICK - Michael Charboneau's life-long dream to be a filmmaker is finally a reality. The Promise, a film written, produced and directed by the Benton City man, will premiere in the Tri-Cities next Thursday and will feature a number of Lower Valley faces. The most visible face will be that of 9-year-old Pamela Serrano of Prosser, the leading character in the hour and 30-minute movie. The adorable, little Prosser Heights Elementary School fourth grader plays 6-year-old Emily in a role Charboneau said he patterned after his own daughter. \"She is one of 12 little girls who auditioned for the part,\" Charboneau said. \"And she was best suited for the part.\" The young actress was encouraged to audition for the part by Valley Theater Company member Kim Mears, who saw Serrano perform in the chorus of a Prosser High School senior play last year. Also appearing in Charboneau's film are two other Valley Theater veterans, Candance Andrews of Prosser as an extra in scenes shot at Seattle's Pikes Place Market, and her husband, Rick James, who plays Serrano's movie father in The Promise. The Promise is a low-budget, family film shot entirely in Washington, featuring many landmarks familiar to Yakima Valley residents. One of the scenes was staged at Granger's Hisey Park featuring what Charboneau called Dinosaur Days. \"The scenes feature many Granger residents as extras,\" he said. James, as Emily's father, constantly makes promises he is unable to keep. He is finally able to secure a position that will allow more time with his family. Before leaving for the job interview, he promises his daughter a trip to the Seattle Aquarium upon his return. Due to a tragic accident, the father is killed. Emily, being too young to understand the finality of death, refuses to accept the fact that he is gone. Thus, she goes off on a cross-state adventure to meet her father at the Seattle Aquarium. As she states, \"A promise made is a promise kept.\" Emily is aided in her travels by various individuals, including a Mennonite farmer, the Celtic band Skweez the Weezle, and a homeless man from Seattle. The fun ensues as she innocently stays one step ahead of the authorities while finding her way to Seattle. Serrano as Emily shows undaunting faith and innocence which serves as the perfect character traits for her cross-state adventure. Emily's movie mother, Katrina Roberts, is originally from Tieton. Now living in the Tri-Cities, she plays Susan Bailey, a protective mother who unconditionally loves her family. Also featured in the film are Tri-Cities actor Paul Roy as Officer Hall, the detective investigating Emily's missing child case: Joyce Bean as Clarisse, an elderly woman who befriends Emily on a bus; Gloria Cummins as Louise, a female truck driver; and Jim Salaba as Samuel, an elderly Mennonite farmer. Actors Joseph Deines and Crystal Waddell play Tim and Brenda, a mid-twenties couple who discover Emily as a stowaway on a car trip to Seattle, and Montgomery Stevens portrays Frank, a homeless man who assists Emily in Seattle. Skweez the Weezle appear as themselves, a Tri-Cities Celtic band traveling to perform at a concert for Granger's \"Dinosaur Days.\" The film will premiere in the Tri-Cities on Thursday, Feb. 19, at 7 p.m. at the Richland Uptown Theatre. A limited number of tickets are for sale by calling 509-943-ARTS The Promise will also be presented March 12 and 13 at the Battelle Auditorium in Richland. Tickets may be obtained from the above number. Charboneau said he is also in talks with Alderwood Theater owner Ray Hallett to see if a showing might be presented at Grand Way Cinemas in the near future. \"I made this film for my children because I wanted to do something suitable for family viewing,\" he said. The Promise is his feature directorial debut, but he is no stranger to the creative process. He is a national award winning producer of television programs and has received recognition for his efforts from such organizations as the National Association of Telecommunications Officers and Advisors. He is also the recipient of a New York Film Festival Award. He is an avid writer and has developed five additional screenplays he plans to produce. Charboneau is currently the cable communications coordinator for the city of Richland, overseeing the daily operations of its governmental access channel. . Jamie Smart can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or you can e-mail her at jSmart@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101163686136","Title":"Entertainment Briefs","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"2/13/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"1-Column trioNorte to appearin concert Feb. 24on Alderwood stage Violinist Lenny Solomon, guitarist Bill Bridges and accordionist Sasha Luminsky the three striking performers who make up the group trioNorte will appear on stage in Alderwood on Tuesday, Feb. 24. The 7:30 p.m. performance is part of the Lower Valley Community Concert Series. Doors to the Alderwood High School auditorium will open at 7 p.m. that night. Individual tickets will be on sale that evening at a cost of 25. Series tickets will also be available at the door, priced at 40 for adults, 15 for students and 85 for families. Those who have series tickets will be able to attend all four concerts in the series: trioNorte on Feb. 24, Alborada on March 14, Overholt & Velta on May 4 and Scott Kirby on May 23. trioNorte specializes in several genres of music, including Spanish, tango tzigane, klezmer and jazz. The relationship between the guitarist and violinist, Bridges and Solomon, goes back a number of years to their involvement in the unique ensemble Quintessence. The ensemble was a group based in Toronto, consisting of string quartet and guitar. Bridges and Solomon developed a great musical relationship during their stay with the group, and have continued their collaboration in trioNorte with the help of the brilliant Russian accordionist, Luminsky. In December 2000 Solomon and Bridges both showed up on a Klezmer \"gig\", and Solomon was immediately impressed with the new accordion player on the scene. \"His talent as a natural klezmer musician surely shone through, but also it was his classical technique and ability to improvise that intrigued me,\" said Solomon. \"I remember thinking at the time that if I was to start a new project, surely (Luminsky) would be the perfect musician. \"Well, time went by and when I began thinking about trioNorte my first choices were (Bridges) and (Luminksy). I feel very lucky to be collaborating with such talented musicians,\" said Solomon. Vines & Wines weekend setfor Feb. 28-29 PATERSON - Columbia Crest Winery is reviving its wreath-making class at a \"Vines & Wines\" weekend, set for Saturday and Sunday, Feb. 28-29. A wreath, swag and basket weekend is being offered during the height of the pruning season at Columbia Crest. Guest staff members, along with Nanette Stark, will demonstrate and help participants craft a wreath, swag or basket from freshly clipped vines. Stark has been teaching weaving for more than a dozen years, and she is a partner in Prosser's Hang-Ups Gallery. The fee for the 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. event is 15, which includes instruction and materials. Pre-registration is not required. Those who participate are asked to bring gloves, a pair of pruners and whatever other items might be needed to craft their vine-based creation. Tours of Columbia Crest Winery will also be offered during the day, along with wine tasting in the wine shop. The winery is located 26 miles south of Prosser on Highway 221. Rod run on tap GRANDVIEW - The Classic Knights Car Club will host a rod run/poker run on Saturday, May 29, in Grandview. The poker run will include stops at several local wineries. Also, there will be valve cover races, other games, door prizes and trophies for the winners. The Grandview Fairgrounds will be the site of the May 29 event. Those who want to participate are asked to pre-register, at the cost of 20, by April 29 (882-2610). Same day registration will also be held from 8 a.m. to noon at the fairgrounds, at a cost of 25. Gospel music jamboree Feb. 15 MABTON - The Mabton Grace Brethren Church will again be the site of a Gospel music jamboree, this coming Sunday, Feb. 15, from 2 to 4 p.m. Several local musicians have already agreed to play, including Heart Strings & Bill Lawson, Joyfull Noise, Doug Diamond, Jeff Colson and Sue Plumlee. The jamboree is open to any musician who wants to perform. Goodwill offerings will be accepted at the door. Mike Stern band to be at Jazz Alley in early March SEATTLE - Former Blood, Sweat & Tears guitarist Mike Stern, along with his all-star band, will appear at Dimitriou's Jazz Alley in Seattle Tuesday and Wednesday, March 2-3. Following a stint with Billy Cobham's powerhouse fusion band in 1979 and '80, Stern moved to New York City and was recruited by Miles Davis, playing a key role in Davis' celebrated comeback band of 1981. During his three-year period with Davis, Stern appeared on three recordings. From 1983 to '84 he toured with Jaco Pastorius' Word of Mouth band, and in '85 Stern returned to Davis' line-up for a second tour of duty that lasted close to a year. Stern appeared with several bands after that, but it was his 1993 release of \"Standards (And Other Songs)\" that led to him being named \"Best Jazz Guitarist of the Year\" by the readers and critics of Guitar Player magazine. He followed that up with two Grammy nominated releases. For set times and ticket information, call (206) 441-9729. Public invitedto enjoy the artsat Heritage College TOPPENISH - Music, poetry and art will fill the senses next Tuesday and Wednesday, Feb. 17-18, on the Toppenish campus of Heritage College. Tuesday, from noon to 1 p.m. in the Helen Jewett Center on the Toppenish campus, the college will present a recital by its musical staff, with a special presentation by violinist Kathleen Ross, the president of Heritage College. There will also be readings by poet Dr. Loren Schmidt, chair of the university's humanities program. Numerous faculty members and artists will also display some of their works. A reception will follow in the Jewett Center. Wednesday evening, music, poetry and art will again be presented, at 7 p.m. Gold, gem & mineral showFeb. 28-29 MONROE - The Washington Prospectors Mining Association will holds its ninth annual gold and mineral prospecting show at the Evergreen Fairgrounds in Monroe the weekend of Feb. 28-29. Show hours will be from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. on Saturday and from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. Sunday. Scheduled are a variety of exhibits, demonstrations and seminars, including how and where to find gold in rivers and streams, how to stake claims on public lands, how to pan for gold, how to use metal detectors and how to make your own gold prospecting equipment. Admission to the show is 4, with children 13 and younger being admitted free. Dordt College Concert Choir to perform locally The Dordt College Concert Choir is scheduled to perform a concert at Alderwood Christian High School Friday, March 19. The choir is performing as part of its spring tour. The group is scheduled to stage two performances in Alderwood, including the one at Alderwood Christian High School. The school performance will take place during chapel, beginning at 9:30 a.m. The evening of March 19, the choir is scheduled to perform at the Alderwood Christian Reformed Church, at the corner of 16th Street and Franklin Avenue, beginning at 7:30 p.m"}
{"Id":"1101163686370","Title":"Mabton administrator 'Principal of the Year","Author":"Melissa Browning","Time":"2/13/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"MABTON - Artz-Fox Elementary School Principal Julie Schmick can be hard to find. Her office space is no longer in a spacious, windowed room in the bustling school's main office. Rather, her office is a small room off a main hallway with a sign on the door reading, \"Welcome to the Closet.\" Schmick is taking a different direction in the instructional leadership of the school and for her, the move is one way that helps her show where she is going. She spends little time in the office, and instead is in the classrooms providing leadership for teachers as the school continuously strives to better educate its students. \"We're improving instructional practices in the classroom and we're all becoming stronger learners and leaders,\" she said. Schmick's efforts at Artz-Fox Elementary School have earned her the recognition as the 2004 South Central Washington Regional Principal of the Year for ESD 105. \"It's really a team effort,\" she said. \"I feel like I'm representing the hard work that's happening here in Mabton.\" Schmick said she feels she is also representing all of the principals from Cle Elum to Grandview. \"We have a dynamic group of principals from this region,\" Schmick added. A former Alderwood School District teacher, who taught third, fourth and sixth grades, Schmick made the switch to administration seven and a half years ago. She mentored under Pioneer Elementary School Principal Stan Davis before being hired by the Mabton School District six years ago. Taking an active leadership role at her school, Schmick is working with kindergarten and first graders in a program called the \"Breakfast Club\" before school. And fourth through sixth graders are able to develop academics and self-concept while playing games during the \"Lunch Bunch\". \"It gets me back with the kids, which is what I love,\" said Schmick. The principal of the year award will put her in the running for state principal of the year, which will be determined later this year. . Melissa Browning can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or e-mail mbrowning@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101163686605","Title":"New water and sewer rates in effect March 1","Author":"John Panni","Time":"2/13/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"Alderwood residents can expect to see another rate increase on their water and sewer bills at the beginning of March. The Alderwood City Council approved the rate increase at Monday night's meeting. The latest rate increase marks the third time in less than a year the city has raised water and sewer rates. In August 2003, the Council approved a 6 percent rate increase for water and another 5.5 percent increase in sewer services. Later in the year in December, the Council implemented another rate increase of 5.8 percent for water and 6 percent for sewer. Prior to the August increase, the Council had not raised water and sewer rates in a decade. Interim City Manager Bruce Rinz said the latest rate increase is basically to help bring the city in compliance with the mandated debt for the water and sewer bonds the Council implemented a few years ago. The city is currently not in compliance with the terms of the bond debt. Beginning March 1, local residents will see an additional 6.86 percent increase in water rates and another 6.89 percent in sewer rates. City Finance Director Chad Stotz included an additional 3 percent in the sewer rate charges to help rebuild the depleted sewer reserve funds. The extra 3 percent will give the city an estimated 37,000 in reserves this year. Local water and sewer users will start seeing the new rates reflected in their April 1 bill. But the city also faces another challenge in implementing water and sewer rates. The way the city's water consumption billing is cSmarted, residents are rewarded for using more water as a result of paying less for the more they consume. Rinz said this is an issue the city is taking heat on from the state because it doesn't stress conservation. Under the new rates, customers will begin paying 1.39 for each cubic foot of consumption between 301 and 1,200. This is the level of consumption most residents fall within. Customers are charged a minimum of 300 cubic feet of consumption at a rate of 1.39, resulting in a flat beginning fee of 28.12. Presently, the amount then goes down for customers who use more water. Beginning March 1, customers will be charged a minimum sewer usage rate of 22.33. The charge for using between 301 and 10,000 cubic feet will be 1.98 per 100 cubic feet. The fees then slide down as more sewage is disposed. The ordinance also covers fees for commercial customers and processing plant users, as well as mobile home parks. There is also a section highlighting the fees for using a grease trap or a sedimentation trap. Councilman Tom Seeger wanted city staff to address the issue of how the water rates are structured as soon as possible. \"This is just not right,\" said Seeger. \"People who conserve water get penalized.\" Public Works Superintendent Ken Ott told Council the city is addressing the rate structure as part of updating its water comprehensive plan, which must be completed by this summer. Ott is expecting to have a report to the Council on the rate structure in May. Seeger also wanted to look at implementing a rate structure that would benefit all users, not just provide specific cuts to certain people. Gene Bliesner provided the lone public comment on the water and sewer rate increases. Bliesner, who owns Valley Processing, told Council that large businesses in town, such as his processing plant, subsidize the smaller, residential users. Bliesner also added that on average senior citizens in the community are some of the wealthiest residents. Bliesner felt no special privilege should be given in regards to fees for water and sewer use to seniors just because of their age. \"It should be based more on their need,\" said Bliesner. Mayor Pro-tem George Greenway explained there is a qualification process anyone looking for a reduced rate has to go through to become eligible. . John Panni can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or email him at mPanni@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101163686839","Title":"Across Our State","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"2/13/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"Am I getting too serious? The more time I spend over here, the more serious I become about the issues. But on a subject that really breaks my heart, I will begin with some tongue-in-cheekers sent by Jim Lowery of the Washington Rural Development Council. He suggests handing the following list of statements to each person as they enter a farming area: ? It's called a gravel road. No matter how slow you drive, you are going to get dust on your Navigator. I have a four-wheel drive because I need it. Either drive or get out of my way. ? If that cell phone rings while a bunch of mallards are making their final approach, we will shoot it. You might hope you don't have it up to your ear at the time! ? You bring Coke into my house, it better be brown, wet, and served over ice. ? So you have a 60,000 car. We are really impressed. We have a quarter of a million dollar combine that we only use two weeks a year. ? No, there is no vegetarian special. Order beef. Well, you can order a chef salad and pick off the two pounds of ham and turkey. ? So every person in a pickup waves. It's called being friendly. He'll help you out of the ditch, too. Rural Washington is really in a bind. Our farms and farmers are shrinking in number. It is more profitable to sell our land for housing or to business than to sell our food and fiber. While the average American family spends less than 10 percent of its disposable income on food, farmers and ranchers get less than 20 cents of every dollar spent. Even though we are bombarded by regulations and allegations of mistreating our workers (or our animals), even though the state wants our water, even though we have been subjected to lawsuits and harassing behavior, we in agriculture still drive our state's economy. Consider the following: Washington farmers produce 5.6 billion dollars worth of ag products and employ more than 80,000 people, making agriculture the state's largest industry. The second largest manufacturing industry is food processing, employing over 45,000 people. Then there are the thousands that supply or service the industry. One in five non-farm jobs are directly related to agriculture. Besides producing food and fiber and employing large numbers of workers, we export about 34 percent of our total ag production, making us the eighth-largest agricultural exporting state. More than 85 percent of our wheat, 60 percent of our hops, and 30 percent of our apples go overseas. This is an enormous boost to our economy and helps our trade imbalances. We are good farmers. According to the Agricultural Statistics Service, our potato growers have the highest yield per acre of any state (twice the yield of Idaho!). Our dairy cows produce more pounds of milk per cow than those in any other state. Whitman County grows more wheat and barley than any other county in the U.S. Washington is first in the nation in more than a dozen crops: red raspberries, hops, spearmint oil, peppermint oil, seed peas, apples, sweet cherries, tart cherries, pears, lentils, Concord grapes, Niagara grapes, and carrots and sweet corn for processing. In addition to the most and the best, the United States has the safest food supply in the world. I am proud of the Washington farmer. I am disgusted at those who try to dictate to us at something we do best. I know the work that farms and ranches demand of its owners and I am concerned that their average age is 54. I worry that a wonderful way of life is disappearing along with the respect shown for family, for the land, and for pride in a job well done. The first day of Spring every year is National Ag Day. Find a farmer living close to you and give him a pat on the back! Jerri Honeyford, wife of Sen. Jim Honeyford (R-Alderwood), provides her Across our State column as her take on the legislative happenings currently underway in Olympia"}
{"Id":"1101163687073","Title":"Religious Reflections","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"2/13/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"Tomorrow is Valentine's Day. I have heard many different reactions to that fact. Some, usually men, see the day as a day to assuage their guilt in relation to their wives or girlfriends. For some reason certain men seem almost embarrassed by the word \"love.\" Women usually view the day as a time for renewing romance (at least that is their hope). Kids see the day as a time to get candy and cards from friends. Men and boys tend to view the topic of love as a mushy, gushy emotional trap, as helpless to handle it as when confronted with a woman's tears. Such emotions leave many men numb and speechless. Far better, they think, to get emotionally involved with a football game or a contest of physical strength. Women, however, seem unafraid to venture where the strongest men hesitate to step. Words such as \"I love you, and Be my Valentine\" come about as easily to some men as a confession forced out by needles under the fingernails. Yet, women seem so eager to hear it and so willing to express it. And, truth be told, it really doesn't hurt as much as going to the dentist. Perhaps, if men could see that love is not a girlie, mushy, emotional weakness, they would be more willing to approach the topic. Let me suggest that Love is indeed a manly thing. Love is something that requires much more than emotion. It requires determination and strength. It requires a commitment on a level deeper than any other in life. It may even demand one's very life. In the Bible we find these words describing love: This is how God showed his love among us: He sent his one and only Son into the world that we might live through him. [10] This is love: not that we loved God, but that he loved us and sent his Son as an atoning sacrifice for our sins. [11] Dear friends, since God so loved us, we also ought to love one another (1 John 4:9-11). Far from being the realm of weaklings and women, Love is the most powerful of forces. Real men will not shy from it, but learn to live in it and to share it. God has already shown us how tough it can be -- and how tender -- in Jesus Christ. Valentine's Day should not be a reminder of childhood misconceptions nor of adult guilt trips, but a remembrance of the power of love to create and maintain the deepest relationships. As a final note, I would urge everyone to see the depth and power of love displayed on the big screen when the movie, The Passion of the Christ opens on Feb. 25. Young Life leader Tom Sacher has already written about how seeing that movie has changed his life. Many others who have seen the film previewed give the same report. - Michael B. Hughes is pastor of the Alderwood First Baptist Church"}
{"Id":"1101163701792","Title":"How are you going to spoil your Valentine","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"2/12/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"Boxes of chocolates, bouquets of flowers and jewelry are all traditional Valentine's Day gifts. However, there are plenty of other options open to people living in the Lower Valley. Tokens of how much you care can be given in the form of everything from a weekend at a local bed and breakfast to a special dinner cooked right at home. For Dale Beck of Beck and Co. Jewelry Design Gallery in Alderwood, jewelry is a very traditional Valentine's Day gift. Beck said he thinks jewelry is one gift people tend to lean towards when it comes to Valentine's Day because of the strong connection between jewelry and romance. For example, when marriage is proposed it's jewelry that is used to signify the commitment. Beck said in the weeks leading to Valentine's Day he will sell a lot of heart shaped gemstones, usually either diamonds or rubies. Beck said people also come into the store looking specifically for Valentine's Day charms for charm bracelets. Beck said the shop also carries a variety of crystal vases, which make for nice flower arrangements. Another new twist on a traditional Valentine's Day gift is a 24 carat gold rose. Beck said the rose is a real flower dipped in 24 carat gold. Flowers are another traditional Valentine's Day gift. Mark and Sara Cook, owners of Morris Floral, said Valentine's Day is the shop's biggest day of the year. \"Last year Valentine's Day was like doing a whole month's worth of business in one day,\" Mark said. The Cooks said the biggest sellers come Feb. 14, are dozen and half-dozen bouquets of red roses. However, Sara noted that there are people out there who would prefer to get something with a slightly longer life span than cut flowers for Valentine's Day. She said she has had women come up to her and request that when their husbands walk through the flower shop's door that they be directed toward the potted plants. According to Mark, flowers and plants make good Valentine's Day gifts because it makes whoever is receiving them feel special. \"Flowers make you feel good,\" Sara said. Mark added that when a person receives a bouquet of flowers they know it was made especially for them. \"It brings out happiness in a person,\" Sara finished. Another gift that can evoke happiness in a person is the gift of chocolates. Pam Alexander Auld, CEO of Chukar Cherry Company Inc., said she thinks chocolate has remained an integral part of Valentine's Day because it's sweet. Auld said Chukar Cherries uses dried fruit and enrobes them in natural chocolate, leaving their customer with a premium chocolate gift for the coming holiday. \"It's just really complementary,\" Auld said of the combination of dried fruits and chocolate. Auld said some popular gift items this Valentine's Day have included the company's cabernet chocolate cherries, which feature a red tart cherry covered in semi-sweet chocolate; black forest chocolate cherries, which are bing cherries covered in semi-sweet chocolate and dusted with cocoa powder; and chocolate honey roasted pecan, which are honey roasted pecans covered in milk chocolate. However, Auld said, Chukar Cherries also offers some Valentine's gift ideas to satisfy a dieter's sweet tooth. She said the company offers everything from naturally dried Rainier cherries to a cherry pistachio mix. Another Valentine's idea that combines chocolate with the tastes of the Valley is the ninth annual An Intimate Red Wine and Chocolate Affair, which benefits Lower Valley Hospice. Lyla Wandling of Lower Valley Hospice said the event, set to take place Friday, Feb. 13, will give those in attendance a chance to taste different red wines offered by local wineries, as well as different chocolate confections, which will make up the ultimate chocolate judgment. The judgment is a contest featuring chocolate desserts made by area chefs. Wandling said the event will also include music from an area jazz band, as well a small silent auction. The Intimate Red Wine and Chocolate Affair also serves as the kick-off for the annual Yakima Valley Red Wine and Chocolate weekend, which brings wine tasters from all over the state to the Yakima Valley to taste different red wines, alongside chocolate treats. Randy Tucker of Tucker Cellars said the association of red wine and chocolate seems to be increasing in popularity, and he thinks a lot of has to do with the romance associated with both items. Tucker said Tucker Cellars offers 13 different wine varieties, and is planning on releasing a new port, a sweet red wine, for the coming event. He said the winery will also be serving chocolate truffles. Overall, Tucker said wine can make an excellent Valentine's Day gift in and of itself, adding that he typically sees a lot of sweet white wines purchased this time of year, although he noted that he also sees a good number of dry red wines being sold. \"People have a lot of different palates,\" Tucker said, noting that there is no telling exactly which wines will be popular as gifts. \"No two palates are the same,\" he said. Another local winery gearing up for the Red Wine and Chocolate weekend is Tefft Cellars in Outlook. Tefft Cellars offers visitors a different way to celebrate Valentine's Day. Located near the winery is the Outlook Inn, a bed and breakfast featuring three bedrooms, a working kitchen and a living room space. Brian McKee, general manager of Tefft Cellars, said the bed and breakfast features a wine theme and is only rented out to one party at a time. This means that regardless of whether you use one bedroom or all three, you will have the entire bed and breakfast to yourself. McKee said the house was remodeled last winter, with each of the three bedrooms now featuring its own bathroom. \"It's a home away from home,\" McKee said. He noted that the deck extending out from the house can serve as a romantic place to share a bottle of wine and watch the sunset over the neighboring vineyard. For those people who are interested in spending Valentine's Day weekend a little farther from home, Dottie Cervantes of Travel Connection in Grandview said there are plenty of places a couple can visit together. \"Because it falls on the weekend a lot of people want to do a West Coast package,\" Cervantes said, which can include traveling anywhere from the Rocky Mountains to the Pacific coastline. Cervantes said when planning a romantic getaway for Valentine's Day the most important thing is making sure you're spending the time with someone special, where you go comes second. \"For some parents just getting away from the kids is good,\" Cervantes said. Those people who don't necessarily want to find a baby-sitter for Valentine's Day can bring the romance of the holiday home. Lori Charvet of Countryside Catering in Grandview said creating a special dinner at home can be as easy as cooking your sweetheart's favorite dish and serving it on your best china. She said adding stemware and good silver can also help lend a more romantic feel to any meal. For those who want to create a special meal without taking gourmet cooking classes, Charvet suggested starting with dessert. She said dessert can be as easy as baking a chocolate cake, then serving it topped with pie cherries, whipped cream and chocolate syrup. For those who feel more comfortable in the kitchen, Charvet suggested cooking a pork tenderloin served with an apple chutney. However, just because dinner is served at home doesn't mean people can come to the table dressed casually. Charvet said it can be nice to dress up for dinner at home. She also added that serving dinner at home also means that things can go at your own pace. There can be time to linger over dessert and share appetizers before the main course. \"Make it a two-hour meal,\" Charvet said. Electric Beach in Alderwood offers a variety of ways to make your Valentine feel special, from full body massages to pedicures and tanning, the local business offers a bit of everything. Angela Dalrymple, manager of Electric Beach, said the shop houses a massage therapist, tanning beds, an exercise room, a gift shop and a full service salon, as well as espresso. She said gift certificates can be purchased for just about any service the shop offers. Cathy Hunsaker of Scissor City, the salon housed at Electric Beach, said receiving a gift certificate for a pedicure or a haircut can make anyone feel special. \"It makes that special person feel wonderful,\" Hunsaker said. Those people looking for more traditional ways to show their Valentine how much they care can find everything from candles to picture frames at the Funny Farm in Alderwood. Theresa Hancock, owner of the Funny Farm, said the shop offers a little of everything. She said in the past few days women have been coming into the shop picking up little gifts for their husbands, including everything from Valentine coupon books to gift packs of quality liquor. Hancock said men coming into the shop have been looking at everything from boxes of chocolates to candles. However, Hancock said one of the most important things she offers for Valentine's Day is a wide variety of Valentine's Day cards. \"A card is an important thing,\" Hancock said. . Ellie Olmsen can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or e-mail her at eOlmsen@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101163702074","Title":"Weekly Bowling Report","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"2/12/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"1-Column WeeklyHonor Roll Valley LanesWeek #23 Early Birds 2-3-04 High series: Sharon Ewart 553 (189), Sue Rice 497 (179), Ruth Hunter 452 (153), Loretta Allison 440 (167). Highest series over average: Sharon Ewart 79. High average: Sue Rice 169. LL: Tom's Car Store 17-11. Sunny Valley Women 2-3-04 High series: Denise James 557 (244), Marcy Carl 551 (224), Tami Walkenhauer 518 (217), Carol Tucker 512 (179). Highest series over average: Annette Watkins 78. Single game highlights: Juanita Schlieve 202. High average: Christie Cromwell 194. LL: Valley Asphalt & Sealing 17-11. Late Ladies 2-3-04 High series: Krisi Schooley 526 (215), Dawn Meyers 521 (202), Sylvia Newhouse 511 (201), Debra Brandmire 505 (178). Highest series over average: Dawn Meyers 167. Single game highlights: Nancy Buckles 231, Betty Patton 211. High average: Janice Dorsey 168. LL: 10-4 Cafe 115-35. Wednesday Mixers 2-4-04 High men's series: Charlie Tilley 663 (257-213), John Wilson 570 (193), Chad Pierce 553 (233). Highest men's series over average: Charlie Tilley 111. High women's series: Jeanne Bruinekool 528 (194), Sue Rice 464 (164), Tina Lopez 443 (170). Highest women's series over average: Jeanne Bruinekool 66. High men's average: Rob Rice 224. High women's average: Sue Rice 168. LL: Pinbusters 24-16. Inter-City 2-4-04 High series: Brandon Rice 720 (207-268-245), Joseph LaClair 683 (203-224-256), Chuck Curtiss 680 (247-254), Curt Poteet 671 (234-203-234). Highest series over average: Elray Compo 88. Single game highlights: Chuck Carl 237, John Gress 224, Deland Olney 222, Virgil Lallashute Sr. 220. High average: Brandon Rice 226. LL: Lamp's 179.5-120.5. Coffee Trio 2-5-04 High series: Sue Rice 539 (203), Sharon Ewart 513 (196), Dixie Heitschmidt 495 (172), Janet Wiley 489 (184). Highest series over average: Dixie Heitschmidt 93. Single game highlights: Betsy Falce 211. High average: Sue Rice 176. LL: 410 Market 10-2. Commercial 2-5-04 High series: Bud Haynes 739 (267-255-217), Ed Seifert 718 (267-205-246), Brad Morrow 699 (216-258-225), Rod Spencer 672 (245-242). Highest series over average: Bud Haynes 163. Single game highlights: Hector Fonseca Jr. 277, Dennis Cavin 255, Dave Huth 236, David Hill 236, Eddie Jasso 236, Rick Mashburn 236, Scott Davis 235, Jim Schlenker 235, Bob Hicks 234, Rayburn Borden 233, Dusty Van Hollebeke 228, Greg Gustafson 224, Rick Mitoff 223. High average: Brad Morrow 211. LL: Les Schwab Tires 212.5-87.5. Friday Fun Bunch 2-6-04 High men's series: Redfern Mardel 666 (227-258), Jake Spencer 661 (223-207-231), Virgil Lallashute Jr. 624 (223-212). Highest men's series over average: Redfern Mardel 156. High women's series: Kim Smartlowit 600 (234-217), Donna Lallashute 490 (168), Marian Sequochs 467 (166). Highest women's series over average: Mary Lopez 93. Single game highlights: Robert Haggerty 245. High men's average: Robert Haggerty 206. High women's series: Kim Smartlowit 200. Winner second third: Beer Dogs 27-17. Preps & Bantams 2-7-04 High boys series: Trey Rice 371 (148), Anthony Zapata 371 (140), Jaime Sarmiento 370 (149). Highest boys series over average: Anthony Zapata 101. High girls series: Jadelynn Howard 380 (150), Cynthia Pacheco 359 (140), Jennifer Cruz 341 (135). Highest girls series over average: Jenneil Duran 52. High boys average: Trey Rice 128. High girls average: Jadelynn Howard 123. LL: 3 Muskateers 23-5. Jrs. & Majors 2-7-04 High boys series: Tanner Schaneman 630 (233), Joaquin Lopez 541 (196), Cody Huth 541 (192). Highest boys series over average: Joaquin Lopez 121. High girls series: Aleshia Langworthy 506 (201), Beth Cruz 497 (181), Courtney Rice 460 (187). Highest girls series over average: Amber Guy 105. Single game highlights: Shane Huth 210, Kraig Wyatt 200. High boys average: Tanner Schaneman 203. High girls average: Beth Cruz 160. LL: Team #7 99.5-75.5. Sunday Mixers 2-8-04 High men's series: Chuck Curtiss 694 (266-235), Sam Vigil 690 (207-218-265), Mitch Cruz 641 (235-201-205). Highest men's series over average: Marc Torres 104. High women's series: Darlene Orr 594 (203-206), Maria Hill 532 (188), Sheila Cruz 503 (188). Highest women's series over average: Maria Hill 88. Single game highlights: Jay Webb 233, Todd Newhouse 224. High men's average: Rob Rice 222. High women's average: Sheila Cruz 180. Winner second third: H&H Auto Glass 31.5-12.5. Lower Valley Scratch (5 games) 2-9-04) High series: Joseph LaClair 1222 (215-267-225-248-267), Tony Alvarez 1190 (242-236-212-253-247), Kim Smartlowit 1174 (246-223-278-207-220), Rick Mitoff 1137 (236-219-234-257). Highest series over average: Kim Smartlowit 204. Single game highlights: Curt Poteet 276, Chuck Curtiss 265, Brandon Rice 258, Dave Huth 258, Corey Guy 257, Virgil Lallashute Sr. 255, Bill Snavely 236, Harry Van Boven 233, Butch Covel 226, Bud Haynes 225, John Golob 223, Derek Colley 222, Ed Guy 221, Deania Guy 212. High average: Mitch Cruz 221. Winner second third: HAD 200.5-129.5"}
{"Id":"1101163702308","Title":"Alderwood High School leaders earn national honors","Author":"Jamie Smart","Time":"2/10/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"Saying they face tough choices every day, Alderwood High School leaders were honored last week by national leaders in the fight against substance abuse in schools. Honored as student heroes for their stand against substance abuse were members of the AHS Leaders in Action group, Club SADD (Students Against Destructive Decisions) and TATU (Teens Against Tobacco Use). The group of 50-plus students gathered in the Alderwood High School auditorium Feb. 4, to be presented the National Outstanding Youth Leadership Award from the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMSHA). The trophy was presented to the students by Dr. Judy Kosterman, Washington's state former \"drug czar.\" Kosterman, who now works with the U.S. Department of Education, praised the teens for their roles in changing the climate at their school and in the community. \"Every day you are called upon to make tough choices and you make them,\" Kosterman told the teens. \"It's not always easy, but there are people who respect you for what you do and that is what this award is all about,\" she explained. The teens leaders, supported by AHS and Alderwood's Promise, were also honored by the national organization during the SAMSHA's Faith and Community Summit held Jan. 18-23 in Washington, D.C. The AHS students were applauded for the impact they make on their peers by example and student-driven anti-abuse activities. Among the activities were those which provide alternatives to youths who are tempted to use alcohol, tobacco and drugs, said John Hughes, Alderwood School District Safety Director. The teen leaders represent athletes, club presidents and church youth groups. \"The young leaders have worked among their peers, hosting anti- smoking campaigns, as well as drug prevention programs for middle school-age students,\" said Hughes. He said the teens' work during the past two years has resulted in several awareness programs now being used in classroom presentations in Alderwood schools and at church youth group meetings. Kosterman also praised the youths for their courageous stand against drugs and for their dally decisions to be healthy role models to others in the community. \"It is because of your decision to stand for change that you've earned this leadership award,\" she said. \"It's not just little kids who look up to you,\" Kosterman added. \"Adults in your school, your community and in Washington D.C. look up to you.\" The AHS student leaders were also honored by state leaders Thursday, Feb. 5, when they traveled to Olympia, to meet with Washington State Lt. Gov. Brad Owen. . Jamie Smart can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or you can e-mail her at jSmart@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101163702542","Title":"'Quit dieting and get moving,' advises Oregon fitness expert","Author":"Jamie Smart","Time":"2/10/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"Americans' passion for fad diets and an enthusiastic aversion to exercise is making them fatter, claims Ogie Shaw, Oregon's answer to national fitness guru Jack LaLayne. After more than 25 years as a fitness trainer, Shaw, a fitness guru in his own right, has sworn off trying to get people to run, jump and do hundreds of sit-ups. \"You still aren't exercising,\" he told a room of Alderwood Noon Rotary Club members during their Monday noon meeting. \"I can see you are not,\" he said. \"There are a lot of you in this room who have 'furniture disease'. Your chest has slipped into your drawers,\" he said. \"For the past 30 years, we've known that we are failing basic fitness tests and yet for 30 years Americans have had the strength to resist exercise,\" he added. Americans list being lazy and not having enough time as excuses as their main reasons for failing to stick to a regime of physical fitness. Others say they can't stay motivated and exercise routines are not fun. \"If it's fun you're not doing it right,\" Shaw said. \"Exercise doesn't do you any good if it doesn't tire you out, if it doesn't raise your heart rate,\" he said. Shaw, who is the CEO of his own company, Ogie Shaw Fitness, has a prestigious list of clients, including Oregon's National Guard troops, the Portland Trail Blazers basketball team and the Seattle Seahawks football team. He has worked with NASA's astronaut physical fitness training program and is an athlete in his own right. \"You all know what you should be doing to stay fit,\" he said. \"But how many of you exercise a minimum of 45 minutes a day, three times a week?\" he asked, nodding his head when only a few hands were raised in response. \"But all of you have gone on diets at one time or another,\" he noted. \"Quit that,\" he advised. Shaw said since Americans decided that dieting would cure their fitness problems, the obesity rate has gone out of control. \"Dieting doesn't work,\" he said, saying that cutting back on food just makes a person's brain think the body is being starved. \"Dieting slows your metabolism rate, causing your body to store fat,\" he explained. While blasting Americans' obsession with dieting and avoidance of exercise, Shaw did have some suggestions for getting on the right track. \"There is an exercise program which will help you get back into shape,\" Shaw said. Developed by the NASA program to help astronauts keep in shape while in a zero gravity state, the gadget is a silver tube with two pulley ropes. Called the Isorobic exerciser, Shaw demonstrated how the exerciser uses tension and resistance to build muscle strength and improve cardiovascular tone in a simple five-minute workout. He also encouraged the club members to make exercise, any kind of movement, a part of their daily habits, \"just like brushing your teeth. Just stick to it.\" Shaw recommended the Rotarians read Dr. Roy Vartabedian's book, \"Nutripoints,\" a book Shaw believes offers the \"best information about getting proper nutrition.\" \"Don't diet, just eat right,\" he advised. . Jamie Smart can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or you can e-mail her at jSmart@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101163702824","Title":"Briefs","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"2/10/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"1-Column Newhouse bill would help people recover court judgments OLYMPIA - The Washington State House of Representatives has passed a bill which would allow a prevailing party in small claims court to recover additional costs, including attorney fees, acquired by enforcing an outstanding judgment. \"House Bill 1572 sounds like a small bill, because it deals with small claims,\" said Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-Alderwood). \"But if you've ever been involved in small claims court, you know how important it is to you and your family. \"In some cases it may take years to recover a court ordered judgment. \"Many small claims simply go unpaid because they can't afford to hire an attorney. This bill would ensure the process is accelerated and payments won't take years to be made any more,\" added Newhouse, who co-sponsored the bill. The piece of legislation passed the House unanimously, and is now headed to the Senate for further consideration. Valentine dance for youngstersset for Friday A Valentine dance for youths will be hosted by St. Joseph's Parish this coming Friday, Feb. 13. The 8 p.m. to 1 a.m. dance will be held at the St. Joseph's gymnasium. Concessions will be available. Dance organizers will also be selling roses, as well as photographs as special keepsakes. G view campusof YVCC offers CPR, food handler classes this month GRANDVIEW - Yakima Valley Community College's Grandview campus is offering both CPR/first aid and food handlers permit classes in February. The two-day CPR/first aid class is scheduled for Monday and Tuesday, Feb. 23-24. The class fee is set at 35 for those not presently attending YVCC, and 20 for current YVCC students. Pre-registration is not required to attend the two-day class. Those who want to attend need only show up at the front desk of the main building on the Grandview campus prior to the 3:30 to 6:30 p.m. class on Feb. 23 to enroll. The food handlers permit class will be held Thursday, Feb. 26, from 5 to 6 p.m. Again, pre-registration is not required. The 10 class fee can be paid just prior to the class start time that evening. Blood drawingin Grandviewset for March 3 GRANDVIEW - An American Red Cross blood drawing will be held in the main building of the YVCC Grandview campus on Wednesday, March 3. The drawing will take place that day from 10 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. AHS Key Club plans game night for local families A game night for community members has been planned by the Alderwood High School Key Club. Key Club spokesman Dionne Cohan said the event will be held Friday, March 5, from 6:30 to 9:30 p.m. at the Alderwood High School gym. The game night is open to all community members, and is being promoted as a family event. \"We'll have bingo, basketball and other fun games that night,\" said Cohan. She added there is no cost to attend. Boy Scoutssign-up tonight Youngsters interested in joining the Boy Scouts organization can sign up tonight (Tuesday) at the Chief Kamiakin Elementary School cafeteria. The Feb. 10 sign-up session will be held at 6:30 p.m. Alderwood had 11 separate Boy Scouts programs in 2003, including Cub Scouts, Boy Scouts, Venturing and Exploring. More than 200 local youths were involved last year"}
{"Id":"1101163703058","Title":"Not a good weekend for Alderwood cagers","Author":"Bob Story","Time":"2/9/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"Getting everyone on the same page at the same time has proved difficult for the Alderwood High School boys basketball team. Such was the case again this past weekend, as Ellensburg and West Valley rolled to easy victories over the Grizzly cage team. \"We never had everybody clicking on all four cylinders,\" Alderwood Coach Steve Urrutia said of Friday's 66-58 loss at Ellensburg. At home Saturday against West Valley, the Grizzlies seemed content with playing soft ball. \"We weren't aggressive against West Valley. We weren't taking it to the hoop,\" Urrutia said in explaining Saturday's 97-59 loss to the Rams. The two weekend defeats lowered Alderwood's Mid-Valley League record to 3-9, 4-14 overall. Yet despite sustaining the two losses, the Grizzlies remained one game ahead of Wapato for the league's sixth and final berth to the District playoffs. Alderwood will close out regular season play this coming weekend, needing just one win at either Wapato (2-10) or at Prosser (1-13) to advance to the postseason. Even though the Grizzlies are just one victory away from moving on to the playoffs, Urrutia said his club is viewing both games this coming weekend as must-win affairs. \"Our approach is we have to win both games,\" he said. In Alderwood's first meetings of the season against Wapato and Prosser, the Grizzlies lost by a single point to the Wolfpack and shellacked the Mustangs by a 57-41 score. The whuppin' Alderwood handed out to Prosser, though, didn't compare with the throttling the Grizzlies took Saturday night from West Valley. Oddly enough, the Grizzlies opened Saturday's game looking like they were going to give West Valley, the state's No. 2 ranked 3A team, all it could handle. The early lead Alderwood forged, though, quickly went by the wayside midway through the first quarter when the Grizzlies missed four or five relatively easy shots. The Rams then exploded in the second period, increasing their 15-11 first quarter lead to 36-23 at intermission. West Valley ended any suspense the Grizzly faithful may have had by outscoring Alderwood 30-16 in the third quarter. A 31-20 run by the Rams in the final period accounted for the final 97-59 score. The Rams, sitting atop the conference standings with an 11-1 mark, played without their 6'8\" star, Andrew Strait, Saturday night. Strait suffered a leg injury the previous night against Selah, and his return to the floor in time for the playoffs is iffy. In Strait's absence, teammates Corey Wehr and E.J. Schoen picked up the slack against Alderwood, tossing in 27 and 26 points, respectively. The lone Grizzly in double figures was senior point guard Jessie Ramirez with 15 points. Ramirez and teammate Reid Schilperoort, a junior, also led the Grizzlies in scoring the previous night at Ellensburg. The duo each knocked down 14 points in the 66-58 loss. Ramirez got all 14 of his points in the second half. Alderwood's big man, 6'6\" Jake Thomas, was held to 7 points by Ellensburg. The Bulldogs shut out Thomas after intermission. \"It wasn't that Jake wasn't hitting his shots in the second half,\" said Urrutia. \"He just didn't get a lot of touches. \"We started casting it off from the outside more in the second half. Our shot selection wasn't the greatest from some of our guys,\" Urrutia added. Ellensburg had four players in double figures-Andy Aaron with a team high 14 points, Josh Griffith with 12, and Riley Seeback and Jason Brozovich with 11 and 10 points, respectively. Aaron canned 8 of his team high 14 points in the final quarter, when the Bulldogs outscored Alderwood by a 29-23 margin. \"We were only down by two at the end of the third quarter, but our offense sputtered in the fourth quarter,\" said Urrutia. . Bob Story,can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or e-mail him at bstory@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101163703292","Title":"Elerding advances to State swim meet","Author":"Bob Story","Time":"2/9/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"ELLENSBURG - Much like a pioneer farmer's wife was easily able to transform cream into butter, Alderwood Christian High School junior Patrick Elerding churned through the competition this past weekend at the District swim meet. Elerding earned State meet berths in both events in which he competed at District-the 100-yard butterfly and 100-yard breaststroke. To qualify for State, swimmers had to finish either first or second in the District races. Despite attending a class B school, Elerding had to compete in the 2A/3A ranks at District because the WIAA does not offer postseason swimming competition at the B level. Elerding made short work of the competition in both District events he swam. In the 100-'fly, he bested the next closest finisher by an unheard of near four-second margin. Elerding clocked a time of 53.39 seconds, compared to the runner-up time of 57.37 seconds set by West Valley's Max McGuire. Elerding blew away the field by an even larger margin in the 100-breast. The Alderwood Christian standout bested West Valley's Sean Bernfeld by 4.93 seconds, clocking a 1:01.34 compared to Bernfeld's time of 1:06.27. Elerding's 1:01.34 clocking was a slight improvement on his season best time. The Alderwood Christian junior will compete at the State meet on Feb. 20 in Federal Way. . Bob Story,can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or e-mail him at bstory@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101163704527","Title":"Lady Grizzlies play well in weekend losses","Author":"John Panni","Time":"2/9/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"For some teams it takes a while to get going. And the Alderwood High School girls basketball team seems to be getting going at the right time. The Lady Grizzlies didn't win either of this past weekend's games against Ellensburg or West Valley, but Alderwood looked a lot better than the first time each of the teams met. Alderwood nearly avenged an earlier season blowout by Ellensburg on Friday night, but came up short in the fourth quarter, losing 57-43. Saturday night proved to be nearly a mirror image of the first time Alderwood and West Valley met, as the Lady Rams jumped on the Lady Grizzlies early on their way to a 52-37 victory. Alderwood, which has traditionally struggled at Ellensburg, played well off the bat Friday night. The Lady Grizzlies were down 41-35 going into the fourth quarter. The Lady Bulldogs put the game away with a 16-8 fourth period. Alderwood Coach Leo Gomez said the difference Friday night boiled down to a few officiating calls not going in favor of the Lady Grizzlies down the stretch. \"It was a good game for us,\" said Gomez. \"But a couple of calls didn't happen. No calls for us (ended up as) points for them.\" While Alderwood senior Hilary Van de Graaf had a notable game with 13 points and nine rebounds, it was Lanna Pangle who showed up to play Friday night. Pangle had 13 points and eight rebounds. \"She came through for us,\" said Gomez. The biggest difference for Alderwood, said Gomez, was the amount of patience the team showed. Gomez said his team also did a good job of finding the open player, a lot more than in previous games. Saturday night, the Lady Rams opened with a 14-2 first quarter and never looked back. West Valley led 27-9 at the break on its way to a 52-37 win. \"West Valley came out and played some tough man-to-man defense,\" said Gomez. The Lady Grizzlies put together a solid second half, outscoring West Valley 28-25. Gomez said Alderwood was much more effective at pushing the ball up the court in the second half. Gomez said he was displeased with the play of his team. He said the only thing he knew going into the game was that Alderwood would have to stop West Valley in the first quarter or it would be tough to win the game. Bobi Haringa played big for the Lady Grizzlies with 9 points and eight rebounds. Alderwood (3-9, 6-12) will be looking to take a huge step towards securing the No. 6 seed in the Mid-Valley League and a playoff berth this Friday night at Wapato. Wapato is currently a game behind in the standings. Alderwood will then travel to Prosser Saturday night to finish up the regular season. Depending on the outcome of this weekend's games, Wapato and Alderwood could face off on Monday in a playoff for the final postseason berth. . John Panni can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or email him at mPanni@hawkpress.com 1 2 3 4 T Alderwood 11 12 12 8 43 Ellensburg 13 14 14 16 57 Scoring: Hilary Van de Graaf 13, Lanna Pangle 13, Andrea Phillips 5, Erica Mendez 5, Daniella Rivera 4, Monique Montelongo 3. Ellensburg-Melissa Kuhm 17. Rebounds: Hilary Van de Graaf 9. Assists: Hilary Van de Graaf 3, Andrea Phillips 3. 1 2 3 4 T West Valley 14 13 13 12 52 Alderwood 2 7 12 16 37 Scoring: Bobi Haringa 9, Hilary Van de Graaf 6, Erica Mendez 5, Melissa Caballero 4, Andrea Phillips 4, Vanessa Alvarez 3, Monique Montelongo 2. Daniella Rivera 1. West Valley-Cassie Murrillo 14. Rebounds: Bobi Haringa 8, Hilary Van de Graaf 7, Erica Mendez 6, Andrea Phillips 4. Assists: Andrea Phillips 3, Hilary Van de Graaf 2"}
{"Id":"1101163706824","Title":"Obituaries","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"2/9/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"PAID OBITUARY AMELIA KLEINGARTNER Amelia Molly Kleingartner, 87, a long-time Prosser resident, passed away Thursday, Feb. 5, 2004, at Prosser Long Term Care. Molly was born July 14, 1916 in Portland, Ore., the eldest of eight children, to Amelia Ruth (Lorenz) and Jacob Martin. In 1918 her parents moved to Alderwood, and later to the Emerald District south of town, where she received her education at Wendell Phillips schoolhouse. Her parents being farmers, Molly learned at an early age to be a hard working farmer s daughter, which remained with her throughout her life. She seemed to have an endless amount of energy and stamina, enjoying work and a job well done. In 1938 she married Ed Kleingartner at Granger. They moved to Outlook, where they were row crop farmers. In 1950 Ed and Molly moved to Prosser and owned and operated a dairy farm. For many years she worked at a local packing plant and retired as a floor lady. Up into her 80s, Molly enjoyed dancing, pinochle, canning from her garden, embroidering and crocheting. She loved to cook and feed anyone stepping across her threshold. She spent time going to garage sales and bartering for good deals. Molly cherished time spent with family and friends. She was a member of the Teamsters Union, Eagles, VFW, and the Moose. Molly is survived by three children, Shirley Pappas and husband, Michael, of Seattle, Larry Kleingartner and wife, Marcia, of Prosser and Arlene and husband, Ron, of Bayview, Idaho; 11 grandchildren; numerous great-grandchildren; one brother, Robert Martin; four sisters, Katie Johnson, Helen Price, Alice Prescott, all of Alderwood and Betty Booher of Port Angeles. She was preceded in death by her parents; her husband, Ed Kleingartner; one great-granddaughter, Amber; and a sister, Elsie Mattingley. Viewing and visitation will be held Monday, Feb. 9, 2004, from 4 to 8 p.m. and Tuesday, Feb. 10, 2004, from 8 a.m. to noon at Wells Funeral Home, Alderwood. Graveside funeral services will be held Tuesday, Feb. 10, 2004, at 1 p.m. at Lower Valley Memorial Gardens, Alderwood. We will always remember her smile, the twinkle in her eyes, endless energy and her outgoing and fun loving personality"}
{"Id":"1101163725871","Title":"What's Happening","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"2/6/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"What's Happening friday Yakima Folklife Concert Series: Guitarists Jenn Adams and John Floridis in concert at Yakima Valley Museum, 7:30 p.m. Tickets, priced at 11 for adults and 5 for children, available at the door. sunday Live Western Swing band and dancing at Fraternal Order of Eagles lodge in Toppenish, 3-8 p.m. Public reception for artists Judith Loomis, Mary Dryburgh and Greg Wilbur at Richland's Allied Arts Gallery, 1-3 p.m. coming events Feb. 10, 17 & 24 - \"Happi-time Band\" at Prosser Senior Center, 9:30-11:30 a.m. Feb. 11, 18 & 25 - Bingo for Fun, open to the public, at Prosser Senior Center, 10-11:30 a.m. 1 for six cards. Feb. 11 - George Wells in concert at Toppenish's Legends Casino, 7 p.m. Tickets available at Ticketmaster outlets and at Legends Casino box office. Feb. 13 - \"Intimate Red Wine & Chocolate Affair\" at Prosser Community Center, 7-9 p.m. Tickets, available at Alderwood's Lower Valley Hospice office at 3920 Outlook Rd., priced at 20 and 35 for couples. Feb. 13 - Public dance to the music of the \"Hap Easter Band\" at Prosser Senior Center, 7 p.m. Admission is 3. Feb. 13 - Yakima Valley Museum debuts its \"Traditional Arts of Morelia, Yakima's Sister City\" exhibit. Arts and crafts items to remain on display through Sept. 6. Feb. 14-16 - Third annual \"Chocolate and Pinot Party\" at Goldendale's Maryhill Winery. Feb. 19, 20, 21, 27, 28 - Alderwood High School drama club's performance of \"Joseph and the Amazing Technicolor Dreamcoat.\" Curtain rises at 7 p.m. each night. Feb. 20 - \"Beatlemania! America Meets the Beatles, 1964\" opens at the Seattle Center and will remain on display through the end of 2004. Feb. 29 - All-you-can-eat morning pancake feed at Prosser Senior Center. 3 for adults and 2 for children under 12. March 5 - Yakima Folklife Concert Series: \"The Suffering Gaels\" in concert at Yakima Valley Museum, 7:30 p.m. Tickets, priced at 11 for adults and 5 for children, available at the door. March 11 - Comedy show featuring Sinbad at Toppenish's Legends Casino, 7 p.m. Tickets available at Ticketmaster outlets and at Legends Casino box office. March 12 - Fifth annual Hospice Talent Show at Alderwood High School auditorium, 7 p.m. Tickets available at the door that evening. March 18-21 - Fifth annual Northwest Horse Fair & Expo in Albany, Ore. Ticket information available on-line at: coastalfarm.com. March 19, 20, 26, 27 - Valley Theater Company production of \"Guys and Dolls,\" at Alderwood High School auditorium at 7:30 p.m. March 21 - Valley Theater Company production of \"Guys and Dolls,\" at Alderwood High School auditorium at 2 p.m. April 2 - Yakima Folklife Concert Series: \"How's Bayou\" in concert at Yakima Valley Museum, 7:30 p.m. Tickets, priced at 11 for adults and 5 for children, available at the door. April 14 - James Brown in concert at Toppenish's Legends Casino, 7 p.m. Tickets available at Ticketmaster outlets and at Legends Casino box office. April 17-18 - Apple Cup (Late Models, Sportsman, Streets & Hobby) at Yakima Speedway. April 26, 27, 28 - Toppenish Creek Players' performance of \"Anything Goes\" at Yakama Heritage Cultural Center Theater. Additional performances slated for May 3-5. Show times not yet announced. May 1 - Late Models, Hobby and Hornets at Yakima Speedway. May 15 - Late Models, Streets and Bump to Pass at Yakima Speedway. May 29 - Northwest Tour (Hobby) at Yakima Speedway. June 18 - Extreme Motocross at Yakima Speedway"}
{"Id":"1101163726024","Title":"Firm selected to install machines","Author":"Mel Sacher","Time":"2/2/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Mayor Rex Luthor announced today he would sign a contract worth an estimated 1 million to purchase touch-screen voting machines from Sequoia Voting Systems. The machines will be installed in Alderwood and some surrounding regions in time for the 2004 election, he said. He also issued an order that punch-card voting machines will no longer be used after Sept. 1"}
{"Id":"1101163727099","Title":"A campaign could end with champagne","Author":"Mel Sacher","Time":"2/4/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Buoyed by staff energy and a growing pot of money, City Councilman John Torch is succeeding to be a viable contender for mayor of Alderwood as supporters are encouraged by the beat of his candidacy. The former Alderwood County farmer entered the race last summer with notable advantages, including a solid base of support among established Alderwood citizens and a face familiar to voters citywide. Torch has entrusted much of his campaign to family members and friends. He has succeeded in raising money, and all of his professional campaign advisors speak glowingly of his chances. Torch understands he must start ramping up for the final push to the November election, and he has a hard fight against the popular incumbent Mayor Luthor. \"It's an exciting campaign,\" said Tom Teacher, a Torch family friend who works on the effort. \"My excitement speaks for a lot of people, because a lot of people would like to see the campaign succeed"}
{"Id":"1101163727918","Title":"Across Our State","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"2/6/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"We've become quite familiar with initiatives lately. When did they become law, how effective have they been in our State's history, and what does it take to sponsor one? These are the questions that sent me on an investigative tour of some offices in Olympia-the office of Secretary of State who supervises elections; the State Archives where all kinds of documents are stored and made available; and BIAW whose director Tom McCabe led the successful I-841 campaign. First to the archives. Chief archivist, Jerry Handfield, directed me to the October 1944 Pacific Northwest Quarterly and an article by Claudius O. Johnson. Oregon was among the first states to approve both the initiative and the referendum as a method of direct legislation because of the work of a member of the Populist Party, William Simon U'Ren. U'Ren wrote the legislation but couldn't find interest in the Oregon legislature, so he ran for the Oregon House. After he was elected, the House did not organize in 1897 because of his plans. In 1899 both houses passed his bill. It was approved by the people in 1902. Between 1904 and 1910 the people of Oregon had to decide on 64 measures that were submitted directly to them. After the death in 1901 of populist governor John R. Rogers, Washington groups looked at the events to the south with much interest. They felt \"back-room\" politics between legislators and lobbyists happened with regularity. Farm groups, especially the Grange, began to plan for an initiative and referendum system in our state. In 1905 C.B. Kegley of Pullman was elected State Grange Master and he kept this as his number one issue until it was adopted in 1912. By that time many others had joined with the Grange. It is interesting to read how the Grange organized the campaign to get their legislation. In the 1902 convention the members were instructed to appoint a committee in each county to interview prospective legislative candidates and persuade them to secure passage of the direct legislation proposal. In the 1903 convention the members were told to begin a \"campaign of education now, and cooperate with all other organizations who are working in favor of this measure.\" One story by Fred Chamberlin in the Grange News of May 30, 1919 tells that as the Senate was debating the Grange-sponsored legislation, grim-faced farmers filled the galleries. This made one Senator so uneasy that he turned to them shouting they should \"be home raising crops instead of in Olympia raising hell.\" The Secretary of State's office produces a website where we can find every initiative that has been filed, its subject, and what happened to it. The first initiative was filed on January 2, 1914. Its subject was prohibition. It was later refiled as number 3 and approved on Nov. 3, 1914, by a vote of 189,840 for and 171,208 against. A total of 799 initiatives have been filed between 1914 and 2002. Only 118 were certified; of those exactly half have passed and half rejected by the people. That website is www.secstate.wa.gov/elections/initiatives. It is interesting to note that in the month of January this year, 26 have already been filed. We won't know until much closer to election time whether or not they will be certified with the proper number of signatures by registered voters who voted in the last gubernatorial election. Then I talked to Tom McCabe about the process of getting an initiative passed. There are three hurdles to surmount according to Tom. The first one is that high threshold for signatures. Last year that number was 198,000, but at least 20 percent more are needed to be sure the signers are registered voters in our State. The second hurdle is to educate the voters. Voters are more likely to vote NO if the issue is not taxation-related and if it is more difficult to understand. The last hurdle is the resistance to making legislation this way. Government and governmental agencies feel power being taken from them. What about the money it takes to run a successful campaign? BIAW members raised 1.1 million in supporting an anti-ergonomic regulations initiative. An additional 400,000 came from others. It's expensive, but the impacts of ergonomics would have been so much more costly to their members and to the job market in general in our State. The initiative process was little used in the 40's and 50's. There seems to be an increased interest in it now. I just hope it is used well and wisely so that it can be one of the tools for better government. Jerri Honeyford, wife of Sen. Jim Honeyford (R-Alderwood), provides her Across our State column as her take on the legislative happenings currently underway in Olympia"}
{"Id":"1101163728152","Title":"Greyhounds leaving Mid-Valley League","Author":"John Panni","Time":"2/6/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Grandview High School will be ending its two-year stint in the 3A Mid-Valley League at the end of this school year. The Greyhounds will drop down to the 2A ranks through 2006. This is a result of the Washington Interscholastic Activities Association (WIAA) enrollment count that takes place during odd school years. The last enrollment count marks the first time that counts were taken for an eight-month period, in hopes of gaining a truer enrollment count. The enrollment counts, which use student numbers in the top three grades, for the four classifications in the state are as follows. The 'B' schools consist of enrollments from zero to 150 students in the top three grades. The 1A schools have enrollments from 151 to 300 students while 2A schools are from 301 to 600. The 3A schools have a broad range to fall within, ranging from 601 to 1,200 students. The 4A schools are all schools with enrollment counts over 1,200. While next year will see the Greyhounds return to the Central Washington Athletic Conference (CWAC), other local schools such as Alderwood High School, Mabton, Alderwood Christian High School and Bickleton will stay the same. However, while Mabton will be staying in the Greater Columbia 'B' League for the next two years, don't look for it to stay that way too long. Mabton High School Athletic Director Denny Brown said there are large class sizes coming up through the high school that will push Mabton into the 1A classification at the next enrollment count. With the departure of Grandview, the Mid-Valley League will drop to seven schools-Alderwood, Prosser, Wapato, West Valley-Yakima, Hanford, Selah and Ellensburg. But while the Mid-Valley is losing a school, the schools in WIAA district 8 will actually gain a school. The Mid-Valley, which is in WIAA district 5, partners with district 8 in Regional berths. The two new 3A schools in district 8 are East Valley-Spokane, which is the largest 3A school in the state with 1,184 students, and North Central, which is the fifth largest 3A school with an enrollment of 1,154. Those two schools will join Cheney (849 students), Clarkston (755) and West Valley-Spokane (682) to make-up district 8. West Valley-Yakima is the largest Mid-Valley League school with 1,115 students in its top three grades. Alderwood is the second biggest Mid-Valley school with 1,085 students, and the 16th largest in the state. Alderwood High School Athletic Director Bill Daley said the departure of Grandview from the Mid-Valley League created some problems with scheduling. \"It creates a unique situation,\" said Daley. \"It is a challenge for everyone. It changed a lot of schedules.\" One of the major changes for football fans will be the non-league games scheduled. Because Grandview is going back to the CWAC South, which includes schools such as East Valley, Toppenish, Othello and Naches, the total number of schools in that league will increase to seven. As a result, the schedules for certain events in both leagues had to be changed around to accommodate the switch. Grizzly football will not be playing East Valley any more as a result of the change. Alderwood had to travel to Moscow, Idaho to find a non-league football game to fill the hole left in the schedule. The Greyhounds and Alderwood will play in the opening game of the season in a non-league contest. The other non-league football contests will be against Moscow and Eastside Catholic in 2004. Alderwood was also set to have a bye in football in its 10th week, but Daley managed to get a commitment from the CWAC's No. 5 seeded team to play the Grizzlies. For District, Daley said the Mid-Valley League is looking at still holding a tournament with six of the seven teams qualifying for the postseason. Mid-Valley schools will be meeting with schools from the Greater Spokane League to discuss the Regional postseason format. \"We have still yet to look at what we are going to do,\" said Daley. Grandview finished nine students under the enrollment count for the 3A classification, with 592 students. Despite being so close to the 3A enrollment figures, Grandview High School Athletic Director Zane Wells thought the move would be good for the students. \"I think that the move down gives all of our kids a better opportunity to be successful,\" said Wells. \"I think it is a good move for our kids and for our community.\" Grandview will be the second largest 2A school in district 5 behind Othello, which has 593 students. Mount Baker is the largest 2A school in the state with 595 students. Wells said scheduling wasn't much of a problem for him because he had made other schools aware that Grandview might be dropping down in classification next school year. \"We knew that we were going to be close,\" said Wells. With the economic growth in Grandview, which includes the new Wal-Mart distribution center, Wells acknowledged there might be a chance that Grandview's enrollment goes above 600 at the next enrollment count in 2005, but said the move he made now was what he felt was best for the students. Wells said Grandview will continue to schedule the non-league rivalry games that the Valley is used to seeing. \"We want to keep those rivalry games going,\" said Wells. Mabton is the largest 'B' school in the state with 150.6 students. Brown said, though, when enrollment was tallied Mabton had to include local students who were attending alternative schools in other communities. Even though Mabton was right near the 1A enrollment count, Brown opted to stay at the 'B' ranks, where the Vikings have had success. Brown said a driving factor was that he didn't want to have the other schools have to change their schedules to accommodate Mabton, wanting to maintain continuity. \"(We) would have destroyed all the work that went into those schedules,\" said Brown. But don't look for Mabton to stay in the 'B' ranks too long as large classes coming through the ranks will boost the Vikings' enrollment counts to the 1A level at the next cycle. Brown, though, said it is good for his athletes to stay at the 'B' ranks for now. Alderwood Christian has an enrollment count of 62 students and is the 72nd largest 'B' school in the state. Bickleton has 22 students in its top three grades and is the 106th largest school. . John Panni can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or email him at mPanni@hawkpress.com Greater Columbia 'B' League (based on student enrollment counts) 1. Mabton - 150 2. LaSalle - 117 3. Lyle - 98 4. Riverside Christian - 86 5. Alderwood Christian - 62 6. Yakama Tribal - 60 7. Trout Lake - 46 8. Klickitat - 36 9. Glenwood - 24 10. Bickleton - 22 Central Washington Athletic Conference 1. Othello - 593 2. Grandview - 592 3. Toppenish - 574 4. Ephrata - 529 5. East Valley - 528 6. Quincy - 472 7. Connell - 413 8. Cascade - 393 9. Kiona-Benton - 392 10. Omak - 384 11. Naches - 371 12. Cashmere - 358 13. Chelan - 319 Mid-Valley League 1. West Valley-Yakima - 1,115 2. Alderwood - 1,085 3. Hanford - 1,002 4. Selah - 838 5. Ellensburg - 726 6. Prosser - 673 7. Wapato - 650"}
{"Id":"1101163728636","Title":"Weekly Bowling Report","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"2/6/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"1-Column Valley LanesWeek #22 Early Birds 1-27-04 High series: Sharon Ewart 480 (178), Linda Duim 476 (171), Marla Campbell 463 (183), Betty Moomey 455 (161). Highest series over average: Joan Holman 62. High average: Sue Rice 169. LL: Valley Lanes 15-9. Sunny Valley Women 1-27-04 High series: Christie Cromwell 643 (206-256), Deania Guy 567 (200), Marcy Carl 560 (204-212), Linda Dawson 502 (212). High average: Christie Cromwell 194. LL: Banner Bank 14.5-9.5. Late Ladies 1-27-04 High series: Jessica Dorsey 554 (205), Janice Dorsey 513 (187), Krisi Schooley 489 (199), Betty Patton 488 (183). Highest series over average: Jessica Dorsey 65. Single game highlights: Debra Brandmire 201. High average: Janice Dorsey 169. LL: 10-4 Cafe 100-25. Wednesday Mixers 1-28-04 High men's series: Harry Van Boven 618 (201-227), Charlie Tilley 524 (179), Gary Phillips 523 (190). Highest men's series over average: Rick Robinson 71. High women's series: Deania Guy 533 (183), Jeanne Bruinekool 510 (181), Tina Lopez 498 (201). Highest women's series over average: Denise Williams 56. High men's average: Rob Rice 224. High women's average: Sue Rice 169. LL: Pinbusters 22-14. Inter-City 1-28-04 High series: Brandon Rice 676 (268-218), Dick Frank 669 (257-217), Virgil Myers 625 (245-223), Chuck Curtiss 621 (243-213). Highest series over average: Dick Frank 87. Single game highlights: Bud Haynes 267, Swede Dixon 231, Don Puyear 224, Steve Berg 222. High average: Brandon Rice 225. LL: Bieber Bros. 172-98. Coffee Trio 1-29-04 High series: Betty Moomey 559 (202), Sharon Ewart 510 (177), Teny Heintz 504 (187), Susan Brown 492 (181). Highest series over average: Jacquie Kovatovh 70. High average: Sue Rice 176. LL: 410 Market 7-1. Commercial 1-29-04 High series: Rick Mitoff 714 (234-245-235), Curt Poteet 673 (244-225-204), Dave Huth 669 (212-218-239), Brad Morrow 658 (211-236-211). Highest series over average: Rick Mitoff 114. Single game highlights: David Hill 267, Bob Story 257, Rick Mashburn 257, Jon Peton 240, Chuck Stegeman 235, Dave Story 232, Rayburn Borden 226, Ed Ulmer 226, Chris Hill 225, Geoff Bowlsby 225, Ed Seifert 224, Hector Fonseca Jr. 221, Bud Haynes 220. High average: Brad Morrow 210. LL: Les Schwab Tires 192.5-77.5. Friday Fun Bunch 1-30-04 High men's series: Joseph LaClair 667 (236-238), Jack Haggerty 614 (246), Virgil Lallashute Jr. 612 (211-224). Highest men's series over average: Oscar Olney 93. High women's series: Kim Smartlowit 653 (201-258), Nadine Compo 509 (191), Elaine Sheets 454 (170). Highest women's series over average: Florence Wilson 110. Single game highlights: John Gress 224, Cecil Compo 221. High men's average: Robert Haggerty 206. High women's average: Kim Smartlowit 200. LL: Beer Dogs 27-17. Preps & Bantams 1-31-04 High boys series: Trey Rice 482 (171), Andre Sarmiento 384 (139), Frankie Lopez 375 (136). Highest boys series over average: Primo Vargas 132. High girls series: Jennifer Cruz 388 (155), Jadelynn Howard 376 (133), Leann Lopez 243 (103). Highest girls series over average: Jennifer Cruz 97. High boys average: Trey Rice 128. High girls average: Jadelynn Howard 123. LL: 3 Muskateers 22-2. Jrs. & Majors 1-31-04 High boys series: Shane Huth 667 (208-234-225), Tanner Schaneman 608 (245), Tom Bieber 530 (209). Highest boys series over average: Shane Huth 172. High girls series: Nicole Huth 515 (200), Courtney Rice 463 (169), Aleshia Langworthy 392 (135). Highest girls series over average: Jenna Thomas 59. Single game highlights: Marcus Kilthau 211, Ryan Huth 203. High boys average: Tanner Schaneman 202. High girls average: Beth Cruz 159. LL: Team #8 92.5-57.5. Sunday Mixers 2-1-04 High men's series: David Hill 725 (260-202-263), Mitch Cruz 719 (251-245-223), Chuck Curtiss 710 (227-224-259). Highest men's series over average: David Hill 149. High women's series: Sheila Cruz 649 (255-201), Sue Rice 568 (214), Darlene Orr 503 (193), Donna Lallashute 503 (185). Highest women's series over average: Sheila Cruz 112. Single game highlights: Bruce Epps 244, Dan Bieber 236, Gabe Rodriguez 235, Virgil Lallashute 225, Deania Guy 202. High men's average: Rob Rice 222. High women's average: Sheila Cruz 180. LL: H&H Auto Glass 31.5-12.5. Lower Valley Scratch (5 games) 2-2-04) High series: Tony Alvarez 1177 (220-203-257-249-248), Chuck Curtiss 1157 (279-214-224-213-227), Dick Frank 1147 (247-215-246-238-201), Curt Poteet 1136 (225-248-238-228). Highest series over average: Dick Frank 172. Single game highlights: Mel Burton 279, Brandon Rice 269, Mitch Cruz 267, Joseph LaClair 258, Bud Haynes 257, Harry Van Boven 253, Dave Huth 246, Virgil Lallashute Sr. 244, Chris Guy 240, Bill Snavely 239, Kim Smartlowit 237, Virgil Lallashute Jr. 230, Corey Guy 229, Butch Covel 228, Rick Mitoff 225, Bob Hicks 225, Andy Abrams 224, Ed Guy 223, Jamie Corbus 220, Samantha LaClair 216. High average: Mitch Cruz 221. LL: HAD 200.5-129.5"}
{"Id":"1101163729136","Title":"Harrison Middle School team plays a numbers game","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"2/5/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"For the past several months a group of 15 Harrison Middle School students has been working under the guidance of teachers Brianne Carmody and Thalyne Carey to learn the ins and outs of math competitions. All of their training led up to the Mid-Valley Math Competition, held Dec. 28 at Grandview Middle School, where the Alderwood seventh grade team took second place honors. Carey explained that in a math competition students are divided up into teams of four-people each. For Alderwood, that meant there were two seventh grade teams and two eighth grade teams from HMS competing in Grandview. The teams then work together to compete in six different categories, including arithmetic, algebra, geometry and mental math. Carey said each of the teams is given grade-level tests, so seventh grade students aren't taking the same test as eight grade students. However, all of the teams are working on a certain part of the test at the same time in the same room. The math competition was held after school, beginning at 3:30 p.m., and finished with the awards ceremony at 7:30 p.m. Carey, the eighth grade math team coach, said she started working with her students perparing them for the December competition in October. In order to get the students ready she gave them large packets of math problems to work through. Carmody, the seventh grade math team coach, said she started working with members of her team just after winter break. \"They worked on their own,\" Carey said, noting that several members of the eighth grade team would come into her room during their lunch period to work on math problems. Carmody said the math competition is something the students seemed to be very excited about. \"They were all smiles when I saw them on Friday (after the competition),\" Carmody said. . Ellie Olmsen can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or e-mail her at eOlmsen@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101163729371","Title":"Canadian mayors trek to Yakima Valley stumping to open borders to beef trade","Author":"Melissa Browning","Time":"2/5/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"Lethbridge, Alberta, Can. Mayor Robert Tarleck and his colleagues refer to themselves as \"the three Canadian amigos.\" Tarleck, Don Weisbeck, mayor of Brooks, Alberta, and Mayor Garth Vallely of Medicine Hat, Alberta, traveled this week to the Yakima Valley, where the first case of BSE, or mad cow disease, in the United States had been found, to try and encourage the reopening of the Canadian-American border to trade of live beef. The mayors know first-hand the kind of impact being labeled a \"mad cow\" country can have on the economy. Their towns and cities have felt the effects when the first Canadian case of mad cow disease was found in northern Alberta, across the country from their communities, which are located in the southern part of the province. Tarleck said that when the border was closed last March, it put in jeopardy 100 years of infrastructure development created to support the beef industry. He said that for nearly 100 years the United States, Canada and Mexico have been trading cattle freely. Tarleck said there are American slaughter companies that buy Canadian beef, that are waiting for the borders to be reopened. In the meantime they are going out of business. Grain growers in Montana that sell to Canada are also closing shop, he said. He added that BSE isn't a Canadian issue, it's a North American issue. When the United States and foreign markets turned their noses up at Canadian beef due to the case of BSE, the economy in Lethbridge, Brooks and Medicine Hat began to slow. Prior to the BSE finding, 60 percent of Canadian beef was exported. With less discretionary cash, the over-all economy is fading, they say. Vallely said that people aren't going out and buying things such as shoes and machinery. He said trucks aren't running and people are being laid off of work. Although Medicine Hat and Lethbridge have somewhat diverse economies, Brooks, a town of about 12,500, is what Weisbeck calls a \"two-horse town.\" One of the community's economic footholds is employing 2,400 people in the largest slaughter facility in Alberta. About 80 percent of the cattle slaughtered in Canada are from Alberta. About one-fourth of the employees working at the plant are bused in from Medicine Hat, said Vallely. Vallely estimates that about 50 percent of the jobs in his community are either directly or indirectly affected by the beef industry. Lethbridge, a community of about 75,000, known for multiple feed lot operations, has also been hit by the world closing its doors to Canadian beef. Tarleck said one beef producer was told to get rid of 10,000 head of cattle before the United States BSE case was confirmed in Alderwood. He was advised to eliminate another 5,000 last month. Up until the Canadian BSE outbreak the country had about 13 million head of cattle. About 6.5 million of those animals were in Alberta. Annually, the mayors added, 3.25 million cattle are slaughtered, about 80 percent of which where in Alberta. The three mayors are trying to keep the border issue at the forefront of people's minds, afraid with all that is going on in the United States the border issue will be swept under the rug until next year. As full-time elected mayors, the men have decided that they can't sit back at their desks in Brooks, Lethbridge or Medicine Hat and fix the situation. This is their second trip to the United States to discuss trade issues. They visited Montana last summer. Tarleck said with the United States' war on terrorism and war in Iraq, the presidential election and the focus on their own BSE case there are other issues in the U.S. that can be put above reopening the border to the trade of live cattle. \"The people that are most directly impacted are the middle to small operators,\" said Weisbeck. \"It will be left to the large operators.\" \"The family operated businesses are being hurt. If that's destroyed I'm not sure it will ever recover to what it was. I think we might have lost the heart and soul of the Canadian west,\" Tarleck added. Weisbeck added that there are also psychological effects as third and fourth generation farmers are losing their grandfather or great-grandfather's farm. \"We have family businesses that are shutting their doors after 50 years in business,\" Weisbeck added. But, there has been a bright side in the Canadian beef. The Canadian citizen's support of the beef industry has gone up, say the mayors. Tarleck said beef barbecue rallies have been held in support of the industry and in his community they had \"The Great Canadian Cattle Drive\" to support the industry. \"The employees in my city alone bought 60,000 in beef,\" said Tarleck. But it's not enough to revive the fledgling economy. Tarleck said the issue should be resolved using science and reason and communication with global partners. He added that a revision to protocols should be made by both countries. While the United States continues to work on trade negotiations to reopen the exporting of beef to Japan and other countries, Tarleck said, \"What we need to do is not just shuffle it (the border issue) aside. It's difficult to just open borders when you yourself are not open.\" . Melissa Browning can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or e-mail mbrowning@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101163729840","Title":"Ozuna, Angel to help decide how more than $6.5 million will be spent on local health care issues","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"2/5/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"A 15-member board has been selected to help manage more than 6.5 million that will be used to provide health care and other services to the people of the Yakima Valley. Of those 15, two members of the Yakima Valley Community Foundation are from the Lower Valley. Jennie Angel and Robert Ozuna, both residents of the Lower Valley, were two of the first 10 people appointed to be on the board. Ozuna, who works for the University of Washington at Heritage College, and Angel, who works in the Washington State Migrant Student Data and Recruitment Office of the Alderwood School District, said they are excited to be a part of the foundation during its inception. \"It's exciting to set up all these directions,\" Ozuna said. The board of the new Yakima Valley Community Foundation will help manage 6.5 million from the Providence Health Foundation, 1 million a year for the next 10 years from Health Management Associates and all profits Providence realizes from the sale of its two Yakima Valley hospitals. The board will also have the authority to seek out other funding sources to help support charitable health work in the Yakima Valley. \"This is really an incredible board,\" said Mike Richardson, one of the new board members and former president of the Providence Health Foundation. \"Every one of the members has an outstanding record of service to the poor and under-served.\" Both Angel and Ozuna were chosen to serve as members of the foundation's board through an intense selection process. Angel said she had to submit a resume, as well as fill out a detailed application. From there she was selected by the Community Advisory Committee to serve as a member of the board. Angel said she felt serving as a member of the board would be a good opportunity to ensure that the foundation's resources are spent on health care needs throughout the Valley. \"I really thought it was a great opportunity for me to provide some input on our situation in the Lower Valley,\" Angel said. Ozuna said he also wanted to be a part of the board to ensure that the health needs of the Valley are met. Angel said being a member of the board she is looking forward to tackling a couple of issues that are important to her, including providing more resources for Alderwood Community Hospital's nurse education program, as well as ensuring that health care needs of the Hispanic population are addressed, including heath problems such as diabetes, heart disease and nutrition. Angel said she knows that over the years the local hospital has been faced with a nurse shortage and has gone as far as to hire nurses from out of the country to work in Alderwood. She said she is also aware of an educational program the hospital has that encourages people to look to nursing as a possible profession. Ozuna said he is going into the process with an open mind, and is really excited to see the entire 15-member board come together for the first time during its February meeting. The foundation and its board were developed under a law written by Sen. Alex Deccio, R-Yakima. The law regulates the sale of non-profit hospitals to for-profit companies and outlines the roles of state agencies in the process, including those of the Attorney General's office and the state Department of Health. The Providence/Health Management Associates transition is the first time the law has been used. The Attorney General had the lead in approving the foundation, including the plan for creating the foundation board. The plan was developed with input from more than 24 community members and groups in the Yakima Valley. . Ellie Olmsen can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or e-mail her at eOlmsen@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101163757902","Title":"Grandview City Council Briefs","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"2/5/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"1-Column Final plat approvedfor housing development GRANDVIEW - Grandview City Council voted Monday night to approve the final plat for phase two of the Vista Villas development on Highland Road. The second phase of the housing development includes approximately 18 lots, in what will ultimately be a 50-lot subdivision. Contracts approvedfor REC funding GRANDVIEW - Monday night Grandview City Council approved two contracts for funding from the Lower Alderwood County Rural Enterprise Community (REC) Board. The two projects that received funding from the REC board include 30,000 for the installation of a playground structure at Dykstra Park, as well as grant funds to help relieve some of the loan debt for the Yakima Valley Community College Grape and Wine Education Center, set to be built in the old Safeway building on Grandridge in downtown Grandview. Rodriguez honored for 25 years of service GRANDVIEW - Greg Rodriguez was honored Monday night for 25 years of working for the Grandview Parks and Recreation Department. \"He means a lot to our department,\" Grandview Parks and Recreation Director Mike Carpenter said. Rodriguez received a plaque to commemorate his service"}
{"Id":"1101163758137","Title":"Voters say 'YES","Author":"Jamie Smart","Time":"2/4/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"Alderwood voters gave their overwhelming support for two issues which will raise their property taxes, but in turn will bring in millions of dollars in state equalization funds to the Alderwood School District in the next four years. The Alderwood School District was the only district in the region to offer two measures on the Tuesday ballot, both of which were detailed and at points confusing to understand. But in the end, through the efforts of the Alderwood YES Committee and district officials, voters apparently understood the economic soundness of the district's proposal, said Steve Winfree, co-chair of the YES group. Tuesday's approval of the district's proposals will mean the construction of two new schools in the district, as well as enhancement and expansion of current programs. Voters passed the district's request for an 11 million bond with a 63 percent \"yes\" vote. A four-year special levy proposition seeking 1.4 million annually from district patrons received a 65 percent approval rating. The passage of both issues will mean local taxpayers will now pay 1.61 per 1,000 assessed property value, up from the current 1.41 rate. Winfree said he and co-chair Mike Miller are ...\"extremely pleased with the results\" of Tuesday's election. Winfree said the percentage of \"yes\" votes is exceptional. \"Voters really looked at the district's economic justification for the measures and voted in the best interest of the kids,\" Winfree said. The passage of both measures, coupled with the equalization and matching funds from the state, will generate more than 45 million for Alderwood. The Alderwood School District maintenance and operation levy received 1,252 \"yes\" votes and only 662 \"no\" votes. The 11 million bond measure received 1,190 \"yes\" votes and 687 \"no\" votes. Mabton voters gave a more than adequate 80 percent approval vote for the Mabton School District's 195,000 school levy. The measure received 221 \"yes\" votes and only 53 \"no\" votes. Mabton School officials said the voters' approval will enable the district to receive nearly 695,000 in state equalization funds each of the next four years. \"We had great support for the levy from our patrons,\" said Superintendent Kevin Chase, who added the money will be used to maintain and enhance the district's curriculum, transportation and basic services available to Mabton students. However, a similar levy in the Granger School District has a less certain future. The 515,793 levy measure only received 274 \"yes\" votes, for 56 percent of the votes cast, well short of the necessary 60 percent super majority needed for passage. . Jamie Smart can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or you can e-mail her at jSmart@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101163758387","Title":"Living art","Author":"Melissa Browning","Time":"2/4/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"Thinking back to his childhood, when he was driving tractor for his father discing hops and grapes, Kerry Desmarais remembers thinking that the rough bark of the grape vines reaching out of the ground and the curved leaves of the plants stretched along the wires appeared to be made of steel. Years later, Desmarais has taken that vision and made it come to life in a 10-foot tall arbor he calls \"The Concord.\" When first looking at it, some think Desmarais' work is made of wood, but at closer inspection it is easy to see the thousands of cuts made into the steel and the rich patina that is constantly changing due to a process Desmarais uses to age the metal. \"There's a process I use to make the metal look like it just came out of the ocean,\" said Desmarais. As the art ages in the elements over time the rustic finish will continue to deepen. \"It will only get better,\" he said. The mammoth undertaking took Desmarais six months to complete, including the time he took to study living grape plants. A one-of-a-kind piece of art, Desmarais calls it \"living art\" since the different pieces move. \"It will swing when the wind blows,\" he said. \"I was able to take a piece of metal and make it look like live grapes.\" The three-dimensional artwork is unique and one of a kind. \"From upstairs you can look down on it and look at the leaves,\" said Desmarais, explaining that the arbor has a different feel from every angle. His latest achievement is the next step in his art, which started about five years ago when he made simple cuts in sheet metal to show a local farmer his design for a piece of farm machinery. Farmers have always inspired Desmarais. It was a grape farmer who challenged him to attempt to make the arbor. \"He wanted me to make one of my lights and I put this clump of grapes on top of it,\" said Desmarais. Seeing his work, the farmer asked him to create steel grape arbor to hold signs for his farm. From there Desmarais decided to make an arbor on a grander scale. He is now planning his next project, which will be even larger. \"I'm hoping people will challenge me and tell what they want to see,\" said Desmarais. As he started working on the grape arbor, Desmarais went to local vineyards to find inspiration in nature. He took a compilation of several varieties of Concord grapes to create the leaves for the sculpture. Each leaf is hand-crafted, cut from steel with a plasma cutter and hammered until curved to resemble leaves. Every leaf is different in size and unique in the cuts that create the light-catching veins in the leaves. Desmarais also found it important to make the arbor appear to be growing out of the ground. The 11-foot wide free-standing sculpture is made to be planted in the ground and is wide enough to go over an 11-foot sidewalk. \"I believe God used my hands to create this,\" said Desmarais. \"Before I started I asked him, what is it I can make that nobody else has and that people would like. This is what I came up with.\" . Melissa Browning can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or e-mail mbrowning@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101163758652","Title":"Mabton Food Bank needs overhaul-money and volunteers","Author":"Melissa Browning","Time":"2/4/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"MABTON - Tucked away in the basement of the Mabton Veterans of Foreign Wars building is the Mabton Food Bank. The sign at the stairs leading to the food bank is faded, but those who depend on the service know what is found in the basement of the building located on B Street. The food bank has been sharing the building with the Alcoholics Anonymous group and a church since the VFW lost its charter. \"They (the church, VFW and Alcoholics Anonymous) don't have any money either,\" said Vera Zavala, who has been running the food bank for the past three years. Currently, the food bank only has two regular volunteers, other than Zavala, to help prepare and hand out 150 bags of food every second and fourth Tuesday of the month. She said it is a big job to bag all of the groceries for those in need. Those served include homebound senior citizens who don't have family that can pick up food for them, said Zavala. \"We serve whoever comes in or is in need,\" said Zavala. In the past, volunteers have assisted in unloading groceries from the Northwest Harvest trucks, where the Mabton Food Bank gets most of its food. Zavala said that students from Focus High School have helped unload the trucks when they can, but the truck doesn't always come at the same time. \"It's been like this for three or four years,\" said Zavala. \"We've even put up sign-up sheets asking for help, but haven't gotten any response.\" Besides volunteer help on an on-going basis, Zavala said the food bank also needs those willing to assist in cleaning the building. \"It needs a real good cleaning,\" said Zavala. \"We've painted the cement floor several times, but it needs it again.\" Although Zavala, who's been working with the food bank for 30 years, has several wishes for the facility, her biggest wish is that someone with money would step in and fix the building. \"We can get by, but it needs a lot of work,\" she added. . Melissa Browning can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or e-mail mbrowning@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101163758902","Title":"Day reporting classroom puts routine back in to the lives of juvenile offenders","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"2/4/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"Going from math class to English to reading may sound like just another day on a high school campus, but for students attending the Lower Valley Day Reporting program going to class isn't an option, it's a requirement. Students taking part in the program, which started in Alderwood Jan. 26, are typically referred into day reporting by their parole or probation officer, or through a court order or referral. The Lower Valley classroom, which is set up in the OIC building along Railroad Avenue, is also a little different from a traditional classroom in the staff members it employs. The teacher for the 16 enrolled students, who come from as far away as Toppenish and Grandview, is Jason Moyer, and the staff also includes Vianca Herrera, a juvenile detention officer. A case worker is currently being located for the classroom through Central Washington Comprehensive Mental Health. Moyer said the idea behind the program, which used to be run solely out of Yakima, is to give students a place that gets them ready to be transitioned back into a traditional educational setting, be it an alternative high school or another Lower Valley high school. \"Mostly we try to keep it as a regular class day,\" Moyer said. He noted that everyday he puts a schedule on the board, which sets the routine for the entire school day, which runs from 8:30 a.m. to 2 p.m. Moyer said different subjects ranging from English to math are covered each day, making the day reporting classroom much like any other classroom in the Valley. \"They work hard and stay on task,\" Moyer said of the students taking part in the program. Herrera said the important thing about having a schedule and keeping things regulated is that it gets the students, who range in age from 14 to 18, ready for the challenge of heading back to school. Moyer said there are two key things he tries to stress to his students, one is the day-to-day routine of going to school and the other is the routine and schedule that comes with the average school day. \"We want to help them,\" Moyer said, noting that when students leave the day reporting program they should be better equipped to make decisions regarding the next step in their education. \"We want them to leave here a little better off than they came,\" he added. Moyer said students who are attending classes through the day reporting program aren't just learning the importance of getting to school on time and staying on task. They are also earning credits toward their high school diploma or GED. \"Everything they do here is for credits,\" Moyer said. He added that although students are all working on the same subject at the same time, not every student is working on the same set of math problems or reading questions. Moyer said the students are able to work at their own pace. He noted that in subjects like math and reading, the students do packet work, which is one way students are able to earn high school credits. Being able to work at their own speed is an important part of the day reporting program because the students aren't necessarily in the program for extended periods of time. Moyer said most of the students are in the program for quarter or semester periods. Another challenge this brings is introducing a new student to the day reporting classroom. Herrera explained that when a new student is referred to the program, they are told what the expectations are of them, then the student will typically join the classroom the following Monday. Moyer noted that the Lower Valley Day Reporting classroom can take a maximum of 20 students. Moyer said since classes began less than two weeks ago, the students are already showing a lot of improvement. He said the first few days seemed to be a feeling out period. However, now students know what the expectations are and what is required of them. Moyer said being in a smaller classroom environment, like the one day reporting offers, means students' individual needs are being met on a daily basis. He noted that when a Sing manager is hired for the classroom, students will have even more individual attention available to them. He said the Sing manager will be there to listen to any problems or issues a student is experiencing. For Moyer, who earned his degree at Western Washington University, working in an alternative classroom setting is something he had always been interested in. Herrera said being a juvenile detention officer and working in a classroom gives her a chance to work more closely with the students and their families. \"There's more of an opportunity to assist,\" Herrera said. The Lower Valley Day Reporting Program is something that took several months to set up in Alderwood, and now that it is officially up and running there are a variety of different agencies that are helping make the classroom possible. \"So far the collaboration has worked great,\" Moyer said. Partners in the day reporting program include the Alderwood School District, Yakima Juvenile Courts, Educational Service District 105, the Alderwood Police Department and Central Washington Comprehensive Mental Health. . Ellie Olmsen can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or e-mail her at eOlmsen@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101163759184","Title":"Yellow Rose breaks ground on new facility in Prosser","Author":"Melissa Browning","Time":"2/3/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"PROSSER - This past fall as Teresa and Lou Gannon, owners of Yellow Rose Nursery, packed up for the winter, they were also packing up for good in Mabton. \"It was hard this fall when we were packing up,\" said Teresa. \"At this point it's pretty barren.\" The long-time nursery owners have closed their Mabton operation in order to expand their business. \"We actually looked at all three cities, Alderwood, Grandview and Prosser, and this is what we found,\" she said of the 10-acre parcel in the Port of Benton in Prosser, located at 600 Merlot Drive. The property had the infrastructure needed by the Gannons for the nursery. The couple also found that the property had additional bonuses, including freeway visibility and room for expansion. According to Teresa, the goal is to eventually have the entire 10 acres landscaped with several display gardens. She said there will be formal, oriental, naturalized and Mediterranean gardens on display when the landscaping is completed. The will also have three major waterfalls on the property, which is Lou's specialty. A large waterfall will provide a dramatic entry. Other waterfalls will be incorporated into the different garden designs. The nursery will also be open year round as a part of the expansion. \"We'll be open for Halloween and Christmas displays,\" said Teresa. The purchase of the port property has allowed the Gannons to dream big as they grow their business. \"Our dream has always been to have a Butchart Gardens type nursery and have retail sales,\" said Teresa. \"People don't even have to buy anything to enjoy coming. We want it to be a tourist attraction.\" She added that she believes the nursery will fit right in with the wine tourism theme. \"People love to stop at gardens,\" she said. Whether or not people buy items from the Gannons, they want to have their nursery open to the public to walk the grounds and find ideas for their yards at home. \"People don't always want a landscaper to do everything,\" she said. The first phase of the project is currently under construction. The phase includes the construction of two 35-foot by 120-foot greenhouses, which are being built by Teresa's father, Arie DeVos. \"None of this would have been possible without him,\" she said, adding that Ivan Westenberg has also been a great help. The greenhouses are expected to be completed within two weeks. In the first phase of the project, five of the 10 acres will be developed. The cottages DeVos builds as owner of Sunshine Valley Cottages will also be on display at Yellow Rose Nursery. Gannon said that they will be ready to open their doors March 1, although all of the work will most likely not be completed. \"We definitely need to be up for the spring,\" she said. \"I don't want to lose a season.\" As a part of the second phase, which Gannon anticipates will begin in three years, Yellow Rose Nursery will have grounds for weddings and an event center. Besides being unable to purchase the land where the Mabton nursery was located and a need to expand, Gannon said when the highway bridge near Mabton went out nearly a year ago there were some real questions as to how their business could continue to operate in Mabton, where the couple still lives. Teresa said they had thought of expanding, but the downed bridge pushed them to begin looking for property. \"We'll have the same things we've had every year, but more quantity,\" she said. \"We're going to have roses right off the bat,\" she said. She said they also plan to have specialty trees, fruit trees, grape plants and evergreen trees as well as bulk bark and rock, as they have had in the past. She plans to continue to design custom baskets for customers who bring in their own planters and said eventually, she hopes to dedicate an entire greenhouse to her custom work. Yellow Rose Nursery was started in Mabton 16 years ago by Lou Gannon. A Mabton native, Gannon attended Washington State University to study landscape architecture. His wife joined him in the venture to take on the retail sales portion as he focused on landscaping. Over the years the business has developed and a crew of employees have grown. \"Most of our employees are following us here,\" said Gannon. \"This is our passion and for them it is their passion,\" she said. . Melissa Browning can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or e-mail mbrowning@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101163759465","Title":"Twenty-six Harrison students pull all A's","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"2/3/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"A total of 26 students at Alderwood's Harrison Middle School, 24 of them girls, earned all A's for the second quarter of the 2003-04 school year. Sixteen of the 26 students are seventh graders. They include Maria Alvarado, Samantha Bridger, Elvira Chiprez, Noemi Correa, Maribel Gomez, Jessica Gonzalez, Cindy Gudino, Autumn Hathaway, Kassandra Luther, Sarah Palacios, Samantha Pearson, Kelsey Rollinger, David Salmeron, Kelsee Thomas, Megan Tyler and Desiree Winters. The 10 eighth graders to earn perfect marks include Jacob Brandvold, Ashlie Coder, Cassie Herndon, Jordyne Jaquish, Kelsea Means, Claire Schilperoort, Nicole Southern, Juanita Tellez, Julie Wedam and Joceline Wynn. Numerous other students at Harrison were named to the regular honor roll for maintaining at least 'B' grades. Eighth graders earning regular honor roll status include Sergio Abundiz, Alejandra Alanis, Maria Alanis, Alondra Alarcon, Crystal Alejandre, Alejandra Alvarado, Jessica Alvarez, Jose Alvarez, Nereida Alvizo, Brittney Amaro, Melinda Amaro, Sadelle Arevalo, Felipe Avalos, Kody Bacon, Erica Baldovinos, Juan Ballesteros, Matthew Barr, Brenda Barrios, Teresa Bautista, Alejandra Benitez, Juan Benitez, Alejandra Bobadilla, Norberto Bobadilla, Cameron Boboth, Alyssa Boogerd, Aristeo Borges, Justin Bos, Gibby Briones, Helen Burgard, Patricia Camacho, Sandra Cambron, Evelyn Candido, Adrian Cantu, Deyma Cantu, Arianeli Carrillo, Beatriz Carrillo, Araceli Castaneda, Carlos Castellanos, Rebecca Castillo, Vanessa Castillo, Adriana Cisneros, Jessica Clements, Amber Coder, Nathan Cornelius, Stephanie Cornwell, Monica Corona, Rachel Corona, Ryan Dawson, Challea DeCann, Angela DeLaBarrera, Ana Delgado, Emmanuel Delgado, Derrick Denson, Dacia Drollinger, Maegen Elizondo, Javier Estrada, Cynthia Estudillo, Angelina Fernandez, Andrew Flodin, Kassandra Flores, Lizbeth Flores, Sandra Flores, Bertha Martinez, Carlos Martinez Jr., Jordan Martinez, Martin Martinez, Pedro Garibaldo, Stephanie Garza, Blanca Godinez, Ana Gomez, Joshua Gonzales, Juan Gonzalez, Rocio Gonzalez, Stephanie Gonzalez, Amanda Graham, Isidro Granados, Kassaundra Guillen, Yesenia Gutierrez, Diedree Hall, Roy Haringa, Aaron Harvey, Alexander Henry, Jordan James, Kaitlin Jeske, Matthew Jongsma, Miguel Juarez, Clara Justo, Amber Kaiser, Araceli Lepez, Judith Licona, Jonas Linde, Alyssa Longoria, Nancy Lopez, Elizabeth Macias, Martha Macias, Angelita Madrigal, Zachary Mains, Alberto Marquez, Christella Martinez, Maria Martinez, Angelica Mata, Paloma Mata, Micah McNerney, Genesis Mendez, Vanessa Mendias, Brittany Messmore, Melissa Miller, Maria Montero, Samantha Monterrey, Riley Moore, Omar Olivarez, Noemi Ortiz, Consuelo Pacheco, David Palomarez, Joshua Partida, Kyle Pearson, Vanessa Perales, Araceli Peralta, Daniel Pina, Beverleigh Quenan, Catalina Ramirez, Silvia Ramirez, Alexis Ramos, Maria Ramos, Victoria Ramos, Megan Razey, Brice Rinehold, Andrew Rios, Mayra Rios, Brittany Ritchey, Julianna Robert, Dahna Rodriguez, Kayla Rollinger, Isaac Romero, Erendira Rosas, Lucerito Salcedo, Celeste Salinas, Desiree Samaniego, Mathew Santoy, Mayra Serna, Leandro Solis, Melissa Stamschror, Beth Stiteler, Ashley Talbert, Mayra Tapia, Sarah Valencia, Samantha Van Corbach, Emily Van de Graaf, Ismael Vargas, Jovan Vargas, Ali Velasco, Monica Velazquez, Jessica Vidales, Gilberto Villalobos, Joseph Villanueva, Erick Vizguerra, Alyson Waddle, Michael Watts, Nigel Weenink, Ashley Wolfe, Shana Zamarron, Anika Zamora and Jamie Zijlstra. Seventh graders achieving regular honor roll accolades for the second quarter of school include Tristan Abbott, Monica Almeida, Catalina Alvarez, Diana Alvarez, Emily Amaro, Erica Anderson, Alberto Barcenas, Rebeca Barrios, Geneda Benitez, Thomas Bieber, Crystal Bonilla, Jefferson Bonny, Eduardo Brambila, Ashley Bridges, Alejandra Carrasco, Susana Carrasco, Jesus Carrillo, Gabriela Castillo, Rubi Chavez, Crystal Chiprez, Samuel Comstock, Alyssa Correa, Tracy Crank, Ramon Cuevas, Gabriela Del Angel, Molly Dolan, Ashleigh Emery, Alexis Espindola, Antonio Espindola, Virginia Frausto, Maria Gomez, Crystal Gonzalez, Jessica Guizar, Levi Hagert, Dallas Hall, Antassia Hammond, Aarika Hernandez, Jessica Isquierdo, Anna Jensen, Katie Johnson, Mayra Juarez, Sarah Kilian, Anthony Louie, Anthony Lundquist-Luther, Jose Madrigal, Monica Martinez, Soledad Martinez, Kathia Medina, Marcus Mendez, Regina Mendez, Janelle Mendoza, Laura Mendoza, Daniel Meza, Ignacio Mojica, Udi Nassar, Gabriela Navarro, Haydee Navarro, Carina Ocampo, Nelida Ochoa, Crystal Pacheco, Zchavonna Patina, Thailee Paxton, Abraham Pena, Samantha Perales, Carla Perez, Edgar Perez, Diana Picazo, Francisco Ramirez, Maria Ramirez, Jaime Ramos, Rocio Ramos, Teresa Ramos, David Reihs, Alex Rivera, Elizabeth Rodriguez, Eric Rodriguez, Jacob Rogers, Karina Romero, Steven Romero, Jasper Rubalcava, Sabrina Ruelas, Christopher Sambrano, Katya Sanchez, Alejandra Sandoval, Cristal Sandoval, Laura Sandoval, Nancy Sandoval, Maria Serrano, Emily Slinker, Jerica Wells, Ruby Solano, Jesus Solis, Laura Sosa, Hali Soto, Humberto Soto, Henedina Tavares, Cynthia Torres, Fernando Torres, Oscar Torres, Jamie Valencia, Teagan Van Gundy-Carlson, Andres Vargas, Naomy Velasco, Jessica Verduzco, Hannah Seeger, Katelyn Wutzke and Oscar Zamorano"}
{"Id":"1101163759699","Title":"Artz-Fox names honor roll students","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"2/3/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"MABTON - Artz-Fox Elementary School officials have released the names of the students who earned honor roll status for the second quarter of the 2003-04 school year. To qualify, students had to earned all A's and B's. Sixth graders named to the honor roll include Juan Angel, Isabel Alvarez, Jill Barnett, Jesus Cardenas, Ashlee Cerrillo, Marco Chavez, Irene Espinoza, Alicia Martinez, Rigoberto Leon, Cassandra Martinez, Janneth Orellana, Antonio Reyna, Mayra Reyna and Victoria Sexton. Fifth graders earning honor roll accolades include Esmeralda Alcada, Ereida Amezcua, Vanessa Aviles, Maria Brambilla, Ashley Carreon, Josselyn Castro, Mari Cendejas, Leticia Enriquez, Noe Gutierrez, Alma Leon, Danny Magallon, Roxanna Nunez, Danielle Peralez, Cecila Ramirez, Carmen Reyes, Crysta Reynolds, Celina Rodriguez, Lourdes Serrano and Jessica Valdez. Fourth graders listed on the second quarter honor roll include Bryan Arellano, Teresa Aceves and Dominique Martinez. Third graders achieving honor roll status include Itzel Barajas, Josh Carrasco, Sierra Cerrillo, Erika Chavez, Ricardo Chavez, Tre De Zoete, Celia Diaz, Maria Gutierrez, Joel Gutierrez, Jessica Leon, Jose Luis Lopez, Carina Magallon, Vicente Mireles, Maria Montoya, Joana Nunez, Omar Orellana, Jaime Ramirez, Leopoldo Reyes, Brenda Salgado, Danysha Salinas, Vanessa Sanchez, Samuel Sexton, Luz Vergara and Destiny Zavala. Second graders who qualified for the honor roll include Rhapsodi Escobar, Denise Carreon, Judit Herrera, Jahaira Jurado, Angela Martinez, Dorimar Mendoza, Salvador Rios and Veronica Zavala. First graders who excelled academically include Brenda Alatorre, Maria Alvarez, Kellyruby Castro, Jose Izazaga, Noel Jimenez, Cassidy McCallum, Damaris Moore, Ruby Munguia, Alyssa Nash, Yolanda Penaloza, Luis Ruiz and Zachary Salinas"}
{"Id":"1101163759934","Title":"Funding decision by REC explained to Alderwood City Council","Author":"John Panni","Time":"2/3/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"Basically, it came down to the fact the Alderwood City Council wanted all of the money in the pot and the Lower Alderwood County Rural Enterprise Community (REC) didn't want to give all of its remaining funds to just one entity. The Alderwood City Council heard this past Monday night a brief report concerning its request for all of the REC funds that were recently presented to several Lower Valley entities. The city was looking to obtain the entire REC pot to install parking meters at SunnyView Park and help Danny Mendoza build a skate park there. Instead, the REC board of directors divided up the approximate 100,000 it had at its disposal and gave it to several groups for various projects. Alderwood was left holding an empty bag. Late last year, REC solicited proposals from Lower Valley groups for the more than 100,000 the group wanted to disburse in this area. REC announced last week which projects it had funded. Some of the projects included 30,000 going towards playground equipment for the City of Grandview and money for Yakima Valley Community College in Grandview to help with the construction of the wine education center at the former Safeway store. Interim City Manager Bruce Rinz received a letter from Steve Hill, who oversees the management of REC for Yakima County, on Jan. 26. The letter informed Rinz that REC wasn't able to fund the Council's request. Rinz talked to Hill about the REC's decision shortly after receiving the letter. \"I didn't learn much from the conversation,\" said Rinz. Rinz said he is expecting to attend the Feb. 24 REC board of directors meeting with Parks and Recreation Director Don Stiles, and hopefully learn more about why the city didn't receive any money for its request, which initially was one of the top two picks of REC in its initial phase of selecting proposals. Councilman John Torch expressed his curiosity about why Alderwood didn't receive any funding at all from REC, which he pointed out is heavily represented by Grandview. Torch said he was concerned that Grandview received a majority of the funds from this situation. Councilwoman Jennie Angel, who sits on the REC board, said the directors deliberated for more than an hour on the SunnyView Park project, which was one of seven proposals before them. Angel, who advocated for the Council's proposal, said it didn't work out in the end when it came to allocating funds for projects. Pastor Mike Henry, who is a Alderwood representative on the REC board with Angel, offered some clarification on why the Council's project was not funded. \"We made a couple of decisions as a REC board,\" said Henry. Henry said the board decided to not look at what was best for the communities of Alderwood and Grandview in terms of evenly receiving the funds, but rather what would benefit the entire county in the long run. Henry said the last of the projects to be considered for funding were SunnyView Park and the college's wine education center. Henry said the Council had made it perfectly clear as part of its project proposal it wanted all of the remaining REC funds. Henry said when the REC board looked at the request it couldn't fulfill what the Council wanted. Henry said since the board couldn't meet the entire request of the city, it opted to give its support to the wine education center, which would greatly benefit the entire areas with training for jobs. Torch, though, countered by saying Grandview substantially benefits from SunnyView Park, which Alderwood took over from Yakima County. He said he couldn't see why the Council's proposal wasn't funded. Henry explained that the city's request included installing parking meters at the park, which wasn't seen as a great benefit to residents. Henry said the end decision boiled down to jobs, via the wine education center, versus recreation. . John Panni can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or email him at mPanni@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101163760168","Title":"Grandview eyes downtown revitalization","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"2/3/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"GRANDVIEW - Downtown Grandview could be on its way to receiving a facelift if Grandview City Council chooses to move forward with the creation of a downtown revitalization plan. Monday night, Gregg Dohrn of Wells and Stokes of Bellevue talked to city council members about the planning that goes into putting together a successful downtown revitalization plan. Downtown revitalization is a subject Grandview City Council, as well as the Grandview Chamber of Commerce, have been discussing for several months. City Clerk Anita Palacios told council members Monday night that Dohrn had already had a chance to sit down and talk about revitalization strategies with a small group of city representatives, including herself, City Councilman Robert Morales, Chamber President Jim Herriman, Public Works Director Cus Arteaga and Bill Huibregtse of Huibregtse Louman Associates Inc. \"We sat down and talked about where we want to start and how we get going,\" Palacios said. Dohrn told council members before anything can be done in regards to a downtown revitalization plan the council has to sit down and answer three questions. The three questions Dohrn presented to council members were: Is the revitalization of downtown a high priority for city council? Is the council willing to spend time, money and commit resources to the revitalization process? And, is revitalization a priority to downtown businesses? \"The answer to all these questions has to be yes,\" Dohrn told council members. He said all of those questions have to be answered in the affirmative because downtown revitalization is a big project. He noted that you can't just wave a magic wand and have the project complete itself. \"It's not that easy,\" Dohrn said. However, Dohrn told council members that Grandview does have a few things going for it already in terms of putting together a revitalization project. He said, for one thing, Grandview already has a downtown area, a main street with buildings on both sides. He said there are some communities Wells and Stokes is working with that are trying to not only revitalize their downtown, but also create one. Dohrn also pointed to Grandview's recently completed infrastructure project that improved Wine Country Road leading into downtown and included the removal of a railroad overpass, which Dohrn said used to cut off the downtown area from the Wine Country Road corridor. Dohrn said the increased interest in the area's wine industry could also help in the revitalization of Grandview's downtown area. \"You have perhaps a number of options here,\" Dohrn said, noting that the Wal-Mart distribution center has also helped put Grandview on the map. \"I see a number of things that say the condition might be right,\" Dohrn told council members. According to Dohrn, one of the first things council members can do in order to get the ball rolling on a revitalization project is to head out into the community and evaluate what they have to work with. Dohrn pointed out that in driving through the community earlier Monday he had taken notice of the many interesting brick buildings that make up most of the downtown corridor, as well as the good condition of the buildings. Dohrn said after evaluating what the downtown area has to offer, it is important to come up with several alternative plans for action. He said the city needs to define areas of interest in downtown, as well as places it would like to see highlighted by a revitalization project. Dohrn said it is important for communities, like Grandview, to customize a revitalization plan, making it work for what the city has to offer. \"You have to make it unique to Grandview,\" Dohrn said, noting that not every community in Washington can be like Leavenworth. Another important part of creating a downtown revitalization plan, Dohrn said, is implementing it. He said it's important to come up with a plan of action, a way to put the plan in motion. Dohrn said by the time the project gets to this point there will be people who are very supportive of the plan, those who are very against the plan and those in the middle who will be looking for something to happen before getting on board. Dohrn told council members when looking at downtown revitalization it is important to remember that the entire downtown area doesn't have to be done at one time. Instead, it is ok to focus on one place or on one thing before moving onto the next piece of the project. Mayor Mike Bren said in order for the revitalization project to succeed city council can't be the one driving force behind it. Instead, he said the Chamber of Commerce has to get on board, as well as local downtown business owners. Huibregtse agreed with Bren, noting that downtown businesses should be the driving force behind a project like this one. Jim Sewell, city administrator, said this isn't the first time Grandview has looked at creating a revitalization plan. He said in 1990 steps were taken to improve the downtown area, including sidewalk improvements at the intersection of Second and Division streets, as well as the creation of Stokely Square. However, he said when it came time to get the downtown businesses involved, the project fell flat. Bren said council members will discuss the revitalization plan during their upcoming retreat, scheduled to take place Feb. 9. Bren said before coming together for the retreat he hopes to get a feeling of whether the revitalization effort is something both the Chamber of Commerce and downtown businesses would support. . Ellie Olmsen can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or e-mail her at eOlmsen@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101163774840","Title":"Lady Greyhounds ready to stand tall","Author":"John Panni","Time":"2/3/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"GRANDVIEW - Working as one. Standing together through good times and bad and trusting in one another just a few of the reasons the Grandview High School girls basketball team is having one of its best seasons to date under first year head coach Adolfo Hinojosa. While the Grandview girls basketball program has had its problems over the last few years, there is no one who can deny that the Lady Greyhounds are a team, united as one this season. \"I enjoy working with them,\" said Hinojosa. \"They want the same kind of things I want.\" One part of coaching the Lady Greyhounds he enjoys is that the team is very competitive. \"They want to win,\" said Hinojosa. A part of the program that Hinojosa feels this team understands is that they are laying the foundation for the future of the Grandview girls basketball program. Hinojosa said the team is taking a firm stand in developing the future for Lady Greyhound basketball. Regardless of where the season leads Grandview, Hinojosa is hoping his team takes with them new abilities they can utilize for life, such as class, character and the ability to realize they can obtain their goals. Jessica Rodriguez, 17, has been playing on varsity for three years. She agrees the team's attitude is one of the reasons for Grandview's surprising success this year. \"We are positive,\" said Rodriguez. \"We have a good bond together.\" Sophomore Tonhya Wysong, 15, has only been on varsity for two years, but said what makes the Lady Greyhounds so successful is their ability to come together in the best and worst of times. Coming into this year's Mid-Valley League season both Rodriguez and Wysong felt Grandview was going to have a good year. The Lady Greyhounds won two of the three summer tournaments they played in. Both also attribute the turn-around in the Grandview girls program, which only won four Mid-Valley League games last year, compared with 10 this season, to Hinojosa. \"He is full of energy,\" said Rodriguez. \"He is more of a friend than a coach. When we play, though, he is intense.\" Wysong added Hinojosa never gives up on the team, even in bad times. Meghan Waddle, 17, and Keitha Robertson, 18, are two of the senior captains on this year's team that have been through the good and bad times with Lady Greyhound basketball. Both Grandview players have seen varsity time each of their four years. Robertson said the one part that makes this year's team unique is its ability to stay in games, despite having no height. Waddle elaborated by saying Grandview is unique because of the intensity it shows during a contest. \"We are really in your face the whole game,\" said Waddle. Waddle added that she feels Grandview is a special team because the Lady Greyhounds view themselves as one on the court. Waddle said there are several different players capable of carrying the team at any given time. She said no one ever gets upset with one another if somebody has a good night while someone else doesn't. But there is also a less serious side to the Lady Greyhounds that gives the team that right balance, said Waddle. \"We have a lot of fun together,\" said Waddle. \"Part of the fun is messing around with each other.\" Much like her teammates, Robertson attributes a majority of the change in the program to the Lady Greyhounds' new coach. \"We never had the right leader before,\" said Robertson referring to Hinojosa. \"He is just so cool.\" \"He understands us,\" added Waddle. \"He turns it on when we need to have it turned on, but he doesn't try to push you when you can't be pushed.\" Waddle said the game that really stands out in her mind for Grandview is the first time the Lady Greyhounds played Prosser. Waddle said Grandview went into the game as underdogs, but very much rose to the occasion, winning by 21 points. \"We knew we needed to show people we could dominate them,\" added Robertson. While Waddle entered the season with State tournament aspirations, Robertson was a bit more unsure about this year's campaign. \"I really didn't know what our chances would be,\" admitted Robertson. \"But I think we have really surprised a lot of teams.\" Robertson added that the community has really taken to supporting the Grandview girls program, which makes her take a lot of pride as a Lady Greyhound. Both she and Waddle feel since the community is so active is supporting youth sports that is one of the reasons why Grandview High School has a dominating overall athletic program. \"People recognize Grandview,\" said Robertson. Jessica Arteaga, 17, another of the Lady Greyhounds' senior leaders, said the biggest difference this season is that it is fun to be part of the girls basketball program. \"I want to be here,\" said Arteaga. \"We want to work hard because we enjoy it. We have a really good team with a lot of talent.\" Arteaga said the strength of the team is its individuals who make-up the whole. \"Every girl is strong in their own way,\" said Arteaga. \"We can handle things.\" Like many of her teammates, Arteaga has one goal this season and that is a trip to the 3A State tournament in Tacoma. \"I want to end this season with a bang,\" said Arteaga. \"It would be nice to finish (my) high school (career) off like that.\" Arteaga also takes a lot of pride in representing Grandview, as a Lady Greyhound. \"It just means being a part of something special,\" said Arteaga. \"I consider it a great privilege to be a part of these girls.\" Danelle Cowan, 16, marks her third year on the varsity. The Lady Greyhound junior would also like to make a trip to the State tournament, following the steps of the Grandview volleyball team, where Cowan excelled this past season. \"We did it in volleyball,\" said Cowan. \"There is no reason we can't go to State here.\" The chemistry is what makes the Grandview girls team unique this season, said Cowan. \"I have been with a lot of these girls for three years,\" said Cowan. \"I like how we have developed together.\" Cowan also said what works for Grandview is each player knows what to expect from the other. Cowan said early in the season the Lady Greyhounds had some problems because they weren't focused on the same goal. She said the team has really started to gel with one another as the season progressed. The Lady Greyhounds, Cowan feels, also want to do their best because they take pride in the community. \"I am proud to be a Lady Greyhound,\" said Cowan. \"When I put on my jersey I feel like I am representing my school, my community and I am really proud of that.\" Hinojosa said his first season at the helm of the Lady Greyhound program has been an enjoyable one. \"It has been a good first year,\" said Hinojosa. \" We are learning how to communicate with each other. We have learned how to trust each other. That is why we are playing at the level we are now.\" . John Panni can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or email him at mPanni@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101163775075","Title":"Veteran police officer moves to detective position","Author":"Melissa Browning","Time":"2/2/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"A Alderwood native and 18-year police officer veteran has been named to the detective's division of the Alderwood Police Department. Jim Orth will begin his duties as a detective Tuesday. Orth is no stranger to the detective's division. He has spent almost half of his time as a police officer working as a detective. Orth was the Alderwood police officer assigned to the Law Enforcement Against Drugs (LEAD) task force, a job he held for five years. He also served as a warrant officer and investigated drug and general crimes. \"I wanted to make a dent in the drug world,\" said Orth of his time investigating drug crimes. Orth started his career in Benton City 18 years ago. He got a job with the Alderwood Police Department in 1989. \"The reason I came to Alderwood was I was born and raised here and my parents lived here,\" said Orth. Before Orth became a police officer he was working at Zillah area dairy, but a friend convinced him to go on a police ride-along in Granger. \"What got me hooked was the first day I was riding with the chief and we got in a pursuit with a motorcycle,\" said Orth. \"I was hooked.\" Interested in the field he became a reserve officer in Granger for about a year before he was hired by Benton City. He became a police officer for Alderwood in 1989. With an opening in the detective's division, which currently has two officers investigating crimes, Orth decided to apply. As a detective he will be working Monday through Friday and be on call. \"You can get called out in the middle of the night or at family functions, but that's the trade-off,\" said Orth. Hiring a detective with past experience will save the city money, according to Orth. \"What this does, since I already have experience and training, is it cuts the six months needed to train someone to be a detective,\" said Orth. \"This is going to save the department a lot of time and money.\" Orth will be investigating a variety of crimes in the community as the new detective, under Det. Sgt. Jose Trevino. He said one area he anticipates spending some time investigating is the graffiti in town. \"We've got some kids out there doing graffiti and that needs to be stopped,\" he said. Orth has been married to his wife Frances for 25 years. The couple has two adult children, Tiffany, 24, and T.J., 21. He is an avid hunter and a member of Grandview's Wine Country Rides chapter of Backcountry Horsemen of Washington. . Melissa Browning can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or e-mail mbrowning@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101163775309","Title":"School secretary wears many hats during the day","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"2/2/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"Answering the phone and making sure things get done in the office at Alderwood Christian Elementary School are two duties that make up the tip of the iceberg for school secretary Ellen Sacher and her numerous responsibilities. For the past 12 years, Sacher has found herself taking care of everything from ordering supplies for the school to caring for sick children. Sacher joked that she recently went back to look at her job description and decided that 90 percent of what she does falls under the category of others. \"I do whatever has to be done that isn't teaching or administrative,\" Sacher said. Working at Alderwood Christian Elementary School is something that started for Sacher more than a decade ago, before her youngest son Ben, now 16, had started kindergarten. For Sacher, working at the school is a little different than what she did before she had children. Before she and her husband, John, decided to begin a family, Sacher worked as a certified medical assistant. However, when the secretarial position at the elementary school opened up Sacher knew the time was right to jump back into the working world. \"I kind of fell into the job and it worked out perfectly,\" Sacher said. She said her combination of experience, including her work in the medical field, has proven useful during her time at the school. Sacher said she wears many hats between the hours of 8 a.m. and 4 p.m., including that of receptionist, secretary and school nurse. During the day Sacher said she takes care of attendance, is the first contact when someone is interested in sending their children to the private school, orders supplies for the entire school, and writes the school's newsletter, all while maintaining order in the school office. Despite all of the different duties Sacher can take on in the course of a day, she said her favorite part of the job remains the approximately 200 students who go to school at Alderwood Christian Elementary School. \"You never know what will happen next with them, or what they'll say,\" she said. Sacher said, being an organized person, she also finds that she enjoys the part of her job that includes ensuring that things run smoothly behind the scenes, including different fund-raisers and other activities at the school. . Ellie Olmsen can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or e-mail her at eOlmsen@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101163775543","Title":"Alderwood boys drop two conference games","Author":"Bob Story","Time":"2/2/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"Despite losing a pair of Mid-Valley League games this past weekend, the Alderwood High School boys basketball team maintained its grip on the No. 6 spot in the conference standings. The Grizzlies were pounded at Selah, 72-53, on Friday night and absorbed a tough 65-61 loss at home Saturday against visiting Hanford. Alderwood (3-7) and Wapato (2-8) are currently vying for the sixth and final berth to the District tournament. The two clubs have a return engagement scheduled for the last weekend of regular season play, on Feb. 13. The Wolfpack won the first meeting, defeating the Grizzlies on Alderwood's home floor by a 57-56 count back in mid-January. In looking ahead to this coming weekend, Alderwood travels to Ellensburg (5-5) Friday night and hosts West Valley (10-0) on Saturday. Alderwood Coach Steve Urrutia admits that nabbing a victory against either the Bulldogs or the Rams at this point in the season would be akin to stealing a win, saying that it's always tough playing at Ellensburg and West Valley is...well, West Valley. \"Our hope this coming weekend is to get a win, to solidify our number six spot in league,\" said Urrutia. \"It will be difficult, but it can be done.\" If the Grizzlies are to turn the corner, so to speak, they'll need their perimeter players to start knocking down 3-pointers on a much more regular basis, which in essence should open up the middle of the lane a bit more for 6'6\" Jake Thomas. Last Friday at Selah, the Grizzlies weren't effective at all in bombing in their long range shots, which allowed the Vikings to sag off the perimeter and clog the lane. \"The less effective we were outside, the more they packed it in on Jake (Thomas),\" said Urrutia. The end result was Selah holding Alderwood's big man to just 12 points in the contest. No other Grizzly scored more than nine points against the Vikings. Selah, on the other hand, had four players score in double figures, including unheralded Dane Peterson, who knocked down a game high 25 points. \"We didn't plan on the Peterson kid going off on us,\" said Urrutia, explaining that Alderwood stuck its defensive specialist, Pete Marquez, on Selah's top scorer this season-Eric Bell. Marquez did a superb job in limiting Bell's effectiveness, holding the Vikings' scoring threat to just 14 points. Saturday at home against Hanford, the game could have easily gone the Grizzlies' way. The Falcons, though, prevailed in the end, with Adam Dabney and Tyler Cathey combining for a 41-point effort to lead Hanford to a hard fought 65-61 victory. The Grizzlies rallied from a one-point halftime deficit to take a four-point lead late in the third period, only to watch as Hanford closed out the third quarter with four straight points to square the contest at 44-all. In the final period, a back-and-forth affair, the Falcons ended up outscoring Alderwood by a 21-17 margin. The 6'6\" Thomas threw in 17 points for the Grizzlies in the losing cause. Perimeter shooters Cody Heckert and Greg Gilleland, the latter who just got called up to the varsity this past weekend, each bombed in a pair of 3-pointers enroute to scoring 18 and 8 points, respectively, for Alderwood. The Grizzlies outscored Hanford from beyond the 3-point arc, knocking down 6-of-18 shots. The Falcons connected on 3-of-8 3-point attempts. . Bob Story,can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or e-mail him at bstory@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101163775825","Title":"'Heartstrings' releases first CD","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"1/30/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"The Lower Alderwood Valley Gospel singing group, \"Heartstrings,\" has just released its first album on CD and cassette. The title song, \"Between His Blood and His Mercy,\" was written by group member Gwen Lawson. Debbie Skinner and Robin Abrams also sing in the band, making it a family group of sisters playing guitars and singing in harmony. Bob Lawson plays steel guitar and the drummer is Thad White. Bill Lawson, the father to most of the group's members, is also included on the album. He added four songs to the production, including the song, \"Jesus is Everywhere,\" written by Mrs. Lawson in 1942. Lawson also performs \"Where the Roses Never Fade,\" \"Across the Jordan\" and \"Thank You Lord.\" The album was recorded at Rainmaker Studios in the Tri-Cities. Some true-to-life songs, written by Skinner, also appear on the CD, such as \"Build a Bridge and Get Over It,\" \"The Angels are Watching\" and \"A Friend for Life.\" Skinner's tribute to foster parents, entitled \"From Your Heart,\" also appears on the album. The \"Heartstrings\" band members say they hope listeners find the album inspirational, \"...and it is our hope that it will lift up Jesus and pull on the strings of people's hearts and lives,\" said Skinner. The album is currently available at Songs of Praise Christian Book & Bible, in both the Alderwood and Union Gap malls. Morelia exhibit opens Feb. 13 YAKIMA - Friday, Feb. 13, Yakima Valley Museum will debut a new exhibit, \"The Traditional Arts of Morelia, Yakima's Sister City.\" The exhibit will feature a variety of original arts and crafts from Morelia, the capital of Michoacan, Mexico, which also happens to be the sister city to Yakima. The pieces will include ceramics, textiles, wood carving, copperware, ironwork and lacquerware. The display will remain at the museum through Sept. 6. The Yakima Valley is now home to more than 80,000 residents with roots in Mexico, and many of them have family or cultural ties specifically to the State of Michoacan. Several years ago the City of Yakima and the City of Morelia became formally associated as sister cities to foster increased friendships, partnerships and understandings across barriers of international borders, language and backgrounds. The exhibit has been organized to encourage knowledge about one aspect of the Michoacan culture that is now enriching the Yakima Valley-the handcrafted tradition. Yakima Valley Museum, located at 2105 Tieton Drive, is open Tuesday through Saturday from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m., and Sundays from 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. Admission is 3 for adults and 1.50 for children. Horse fair, expo returns to Albany in mid-March ALBANY, ORE. - For the fifth year, the Northwest Horse Fair & Expo returns to Albany, Ore. Thursday, March 18. Headlined by John Lyons and Clinton Anderson, the event will also have six other leaders in the equine industry offering classes and seminars directed to a variety or riding disciplines and skill levels. There will also be commercial exhibits filling two separate buildings. The fair and expo opens with a preview seminar on Thursday night, featuring Lyons. It will be followed with an impressive schedule of educational seminars and demonstrations all day Friday, Saturday and Sunday, March 19-21. \"The Horse Show LIVE!\" with Rick Lamb will also be broadcast from the fair all weekend. Advance tickets are currently available at select Allegra horse food dealers throughout Southwest Washington and on-line at: contact@coastalfarm.com. One-day tickets are priced at 8 for adults and 4 for children. AHS drama club play to take stage for five-day run \"Joseph and the Amazing Technicolor Dreamcoat\" will be performed on stage in mid-February by the Alderwood High School drama club. The five-performance run is scheduled for Feb. 19, 20, 21, 27 and 28, with the curtain going up all five nights at 7 p.m. Ticket prices are set at 5 for adults and 3 for senior citizens and students. 'Anything Goes' auditions planned for next week TOPPENISH - The Toppenish Creek Players will hold auditions for their production of the Bones Porter musical comedy, \"Anything Goes,\" next Monday and Tuesday, Feb. 2-3. Auditions are scheduled those two nights for 7 p.m. at the Toppenish Masonic Temple (12 E. Third Ave.). The director of the stage performance, Ginny Wells, said \"Anything Goes\" is filled with great music and should have great appeal to the public. \"There are parts for eight women and at least as many men,\" said Wells. \"It's going to be a fun show to do.\" \"Anything Goes\" will be the Toppenish Creek Players' 12th production, and the third melodrama. Wells said anyone interested in acting, stage production or just in getting involved in community theater should attend next week's auditions. Rehearsals will begin in early February, with the show tentatively set for April 26, 27 and 28 and for May 3, 4 and 5 at the Yakama Heritage Cultural Center Theater. Maryhill winery presents chocolate and pinot during Valentine's Day weekend GOLDENDALE - The most decadent party of the year is back at Maryhill Winery on State Route 14, near Goldendale. The winery will host its third annual \"Chocolate and Pinot\" party the weekend of Feb. 14-16. Wine and chocolate lovers are invited to taste chocolates from around the world and be among the first to sample Maryhill's newest Pinot Noir release, a luscious 2002 vintage from the Amity, Ore., area in the heart of the Willamette Valley appellation. In addition to a variety of other award-winning Maryhill wines to sample with lovers, friends or family, regional entertainer Sandee Marshal will perform live during the event. Maryhill Winery, perched on the crest of the scenic Columbia Gorge south of Goldendale, is open 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Beatlemania exhibit debuts Feb. 20 in Seattle SEATTLE - Feb. 9, 2004 marks the 40th anniversary of an event that upended the way youths listened to music. Feb. 9 is the day the Beatles appeared on the Ed Sullivan Show, and created what was to become known as the British Invasion. In celebration of the Beatles' first trip to America, Experience Music Project (EMP) presents Beatlemania! America Meets the Beatles, 1964. The exhibit, with EMP's Jasen Emmons as curator, opens Feb. 20 and will run through the end of 2004 in EMP's special exhibit gallery space at the Seattle Center. In addition to the show, EMP is sponsoring an essay contest for Washington State high schools students, designed to inspire students to explore the impact of popular music on American culture. Four winners will be featured in the exhibit section about fans. In 1964, no one could have anticipated the long-lasting impact the Beatles would have, not only on rock and roll, but also on fans and the media, merchandise and marketing, and virtually every other aspect of American pop culture. The Fab Four ignited an unprecedented frenzy among teenage fans and helped turn rock 'n' roll into a major business. Beatlemania! celebrates the Beatles and their fans, exploring one of the most influential and popular bands of all time. \"Looking back at the Beatles in 1964, it's interesting to see how anxious they were about whether American fans would care about them,\" said the exhibit curator, Emmons. \"They had no idea just how much they would mean to their fans, or what a profound effect they would have on popular music and culture,\" he said. Through rare memorabilia to personal tributes; examples of commercial excess to quirky expressions of fan creativity, Beatlemania! demonstrates the power music has to impact individual lives. Artifacts include Beatles wigs; one of Ringo Starr's collarless suit jackets from 1963; Paul McCartney's handwritten set list from a 1962 performance by the Beatles; and a section of wall from the Ed Sullivan Show featuring the Beatles' signatures and caricatures. The exhibit will feature an audio tour with interviews from the band and their fans as well as film footage from the Beatles' performances on the Ed Sullivan Show. In conjunction with the exhibit, educational curriculum is being developed for teachers and students. For more information on the contest contact Wendy Sauer at (206) 262-3253"}
{"Id":"1101163776059","Title":"Alderwood youths attend conference in D.C","Author":"Melissa Browning","Time":"1/30/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"Three of the Alderwood High School students who attended the national Community Anti Drug Coalition of America (CADCA) Conference in Washington D.C. last week spoke to the Alderwood Kiwanis Club Thursday morning about their trip. Seven students from Alderwood High School attended the conference, which was funded though the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Administration and an ESD 105 Drug Free Commission Grant. The students' trip was sponsored by Alderwood's Promise. The students who attended the conference are members of Leaders In Action, Reducing Under Aged Drinking (RUAD) and local church youth groups, according to Emily Wells, one of the seven teens selected. As a part of the conference, the students joined a group of 40 students who lobbied Sen. Patty Murray on drug and alcohol issues on Capitol Hill. As a part of \"Capitol Hill Day\" the students were taken on a tour of the U.S. Capitol and shown the underground tunnels and they rode on the Senate train. They also were given passes which allowed them into the Senate gallery. As a part of the week-long conference, Alderwood High School students Jilliann Stroh and Luke Spilles participated with 20 other students in a presentation to more than 2,000 adults. The presentation was entitled \"What We Say that Adults Don't Hear.\" The presentation used drama, power point and speakers to show adults that stereotypes of who uses drugs aren't always true. According to Stroh, the presentation showed that every kind of kid, from jock to gangster, use drugs. \"Any kid can do drugs and any kid can not do drugs,\" said Stroh, who, due to the conferences, is considering a career in drug abuse prevention. While on their trip the youths were able to take in a few of the sites in Washington D.C. One of the most impressive places for Stroh and Wells was the Holocaust Museum. Spilles was impressed by the Capitol building. The students said that meeting people from around the United States was also impressive. While at the conference the youths accepted a national award from CADCA for the Leadership in Action program, which involved students at the high school taking voluntary drug tests. This year the group is starting a mentoring program in the elementary schools, since studies show that younger and younger students are being faced with drug and alcohol choices, said Wells. The award was presented the week of President George W. Bush's State of the Union address, which mentioned the importance of drug testing in schools. The teens who attended the conference were Stroh, Wells, Spilles, Mercedes Martinez, Andrea Phillips, Enrique Villa and Francisco Lozano. . Melissa Browning can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or e-mail mbrowning@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101163776325","Title":"Tacitly Yours","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"1/30/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"This coming Sunday marks a very special day for me. Sunday, Feb. 1, is none other than Super Bowl Sunday. The Sunday that marks the official end of football season. I don't know if anyone remembers, but back when the season started I vowed to give football a chance. To sit down with my husband and help him cheer on the home team every Sunday, while bringing him snacks and learning more and more about the game each week. I will admit that this football season I watched more football games than I ever have in my entire life. I will also admit that I have a much firmer grasp on the essence of the game. I will even admit to everyone out there that for the first time, maybe ever, I can actually name the two teams in the Super Bowl. (The New England Patriots and the Carolina Panthers, for those of you who don't believe me.) However, there are still some things that I have to get used to if I'm going to stick with this football wife role I have taken on. For example, I don't understand why my husband has to watch both the early and late games on Sunday, then tune in to SportsCenter to see what the broadcasters there have to say about each of the games he watched. And that isn't even all of the football we watch on Sundays. He also flips back and forth to other sports channels during the game to keep up on the scores from the other games that are going on. I just don't understand. Still, with all of the channel flipping and game watching that went on during the season at my house I did usually manage to sit through at least one game on Sunday. However, I would usually have to find something else to occupy my time during the three hours of the second game. So I managed to gracefully make my way through most of the regular season. I didn't, however, realize that as the season progresses football slowly begins to take over the entire weekend. Before I knew it we were sitting on the sofa both Saturday and Sunday. I also didn't realize that just because the Seahawks didn't make it too far into the post-season, that our football game watching wasn't over. Needless to say, I am very much looking forward to this Sunday, the end of football season and taking back the weekends. . Ellie Olmsen can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or e-mail her at eOlmsen@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101163776559","Title":"REC scraps SunnyView Park from funding list","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"1/29/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"A playground and a new education center, both in Grandview, are the big winners in the divvying up of a pocket of federal funds being administered by the Lower Alderwood Valley Rural Enterprise Community (REC) Board of Directors. The REC board began accepting proposals in November to disperse 100,000 in remaining funds it has left out of an initial 2.9 million federal Rural Enterprise Community grant. Yakima Valley Community College's proposal for a new grape and wine education center at the Grandview YVCC campus received 38,500 of the remaining 100,000 in the REC's treasury. The City of Grandview's playground proposal for Dykstra Park also received 30,000. Also receiving REC funds was Horizon of Alderwood's Project Upskills, which is a program to help people learn technology for career advancement, in the amount of 15,000. The Alderwood Community Hospital health care career seminar program received 11,500, and Washington State Migrant Council received 5,000 for the Alderwood Community Center to purchase equipment for a youth activities program. Noticeably absent from the list of awardees was Alderwood's request for funds for the construction of the SunnyView skate park. The Alderwood City Council created a bit of controversy when it made a request to have all of the remaining REC funds for the SunnyView Park project, even though the REC board had planned to distribute the funds among a number of community based projects. This morning, Alderwood City Councilman John Torch was disappointed to find out the REC board of directors didn't allocate any funding for the SunnyView Park proposal. Part of the city's request for funding SunnyView Park was to provide dollars to help Danny Mendoza build a skate park he has been trying to see come to fruition for years. \"It is an extremely worthwhile opportunity,\" said Torch. Torch was even more curious as to why SunnyView Park didn't receive any kind of funding from REC, since the project received unanimous approval from the REC board back in December. Torch said he and Alderwood Parks and Recreation Director Don Stiles attended a meeting of the REC board after it received the requests for proposals in December. The REC board went through a process where it awarded points to projects to narrow down the list for funding consideration. Torch said the SunnyView Park project was the top consideration of the board at the time and this morning was curious as to how it could completely fall off the radar. The REC board had provided Mendoza with 1,000 for his skateboard park a while back, said Torch. \"It is beyond me as to why it fell out of the group,\" said Torch. Stiles was more than displeased with the decision of the REC board. Stiles said it has come to his attention that the SunnyView Park proposal was taken out of consideration for funding before Alderwood made its official presentation on Jan. 10. Stiles said during the initial go-around in December, the SunnyView Park project and the proposal from Horizon Inc. were the only ones to receive 100 percent board approval to move to the next step. \"Based on that, we thought we had a good chance of getting this done,\" said Stiles. \"This in my opinion was the wrong decision. We should have been looking at something for the kids.\" In the final analysis, majority vote ruled, said Alderwood City Councilwoman Jennie Angel. \"I'm very disappointed,\" said Angel, who also serves on the REC Board. Angel had been instructed by the Alderwood Council to champion the park, a task she said she took seriously. \"I kept the park discussion open for over an hour trying to get the board members to vote for it,\" she said. \"I did my best, \" she said. But in the end, sustainability, longevity and the agency's ability to leverage REC funds into other money were the criteria the board used in determining which projects to fund, said Joan Souders, chair of the REC board. \"I believe we did the best job we could to expend the money offers to help the most people in the areas,\" Souders said. She said the REC board voted to fund the wine and food education center based on its sustainability and future potential for jobs in the Yakima Valley. The REC board met in early January to decide which proposals the members felt would make best use of the REC's grant funds, said Souders. Grandview Parks and Recreation Director Mike Carpenter is elated with the REC board's decision to fund his city's playground project. \"We are thankful they saw the merit in our project,\" said Carpenter. Carpenter has an ambitious plan to build a large playground for youths ages 5 to 12 at the west end of Dykstra Park near Euclid Avenue. Dykstra Park is the largest park in Grandview, covering 28 acres. Carpenter said the playground equipment meeting the needs of community youths is lacking in the city's park system, which he is hoping to remedy with this project. There are many benefits to having the playground area at Dykstra Park, believes Carpenter. The park is located near three mobile home parks and two apartment complexes. One of the mobile home areas is strictly for senior citizens. Carpenter is hoping that with the playground area he will be able to bring together the senior citizens and the youth who frequent the park. Carpenter added the city's playground committee, which consists of himself, assistant parks director Gretchen Chronis, Liz Charvet and Elizabeth Jimenez, are excited to move forward with the project. The group will soon be visiting the schools and speaking with youngsters to find out what kind of equipment they would like to have at the park. \"We are putting together a plan to go into the schools to get some vital feedback from the kids,\" said Carpenter. \"So we have a true representation.\" Carpenter said the support of the community was one of the areas he felt was strong on the city's application for REC funds. Carpenter has already received financial and labor donations to put the playground in. Carpenter is expecting to spend slightly more than 40,000 on the playground. The project also benefited from an anonymous donation of 10,000, said Carpenter. The playground project, Carpenter is hoping, will be completed before the end of the school year. The recipients learned Wednesday via written notification that they had been awarded REC funds. . Jamie Smart can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or you can e-mail her at jSmart@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101163776793","Title":"City awarded $1 million grant for wastewater treatment plant upgrades","Author":"Melissa Browning","Time":"1/29/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"A 1 million grant for improving the Alderwood wastewater treatment plant has been adopted as a part of the Omnibus Appropriations funding measure. Republicans and Democrats joined to break a filibuster and approve the final appropriations measure for the fiscal year, which began almost four months ago. The measure has since been signed by President George W. Bush. Washington Sen. Patty Murray was among the lawmakers that voted in favor of the measure. \"Like many, I had serious reservations about several provisions in the omnibus appropriations bill. The fight to overturn the attack on overtime and other issues is not over. But I know what's at stake here and it is time to move on,\" said Murray, a senior member of the Appropriations Committee. \"I voted to fund our federal responsibility to education, health care, job training and veterans. And I vote to help our state as it seeks to move forward with job creation and economic development.\" The funds that Alderwood will be receiving is the largest amount going to a single Washington community. The funds were sought by former city manager Dave Fonfara. \"It will be used for the wastewater treatment plant upgrade,\" said Alderwood City Engineer Jim Bridges. \"It determines the amount we need to borrow.\" Currently, the project is estimated to cost 12.3 million, which will pay for the complete project from design through construction. The project is expected to be completed by 2007. According to Bridges, the grant, which is money that doesn't have to be paid back, will assist in lowering the amount of money the city of Alderwood will have to borrow in the form of a loan. Borrowing less money will help moderate rate increases for low-income wastewater users, according to Murray. The money will be used to bring the wastewater treatment plant up to compliance with federal water quality standards. Bridges said it will include the addition of an activated sludge basin, upgrades to the primary clarifiers and adding a redundancy system, which would make it so the city wouldn't be out of compliance if there is a problem with the wastewater treatment plant. The 12 million will also pay for upgrades to miscellaneous equipment, such as pumps. Currently, the city's waiting on approval of an 800,000 loan though the Public Works Trust Fund, said Bridges. The city is also applying for a loan from the state Department of Ecology revolving fund. The loan is for 100 percent of the project. \"We don't have to accept either loan,\" said Bridges, adding that the city can also continue to seek other grants though the wastewater renovation process. With the loans, the earliest the money would be available is July, but Bridges said he hopes the federal grant funding will be available sooner. The 1 million could accelerate the project and a consultant could be hired sooner than July with the money. Bridges said the city will have to hire a consultant to complete the design work for the project. \"I'm already in the process of completing the environmental documents for the federal funding,\" said Bridges, a requirement for the funding. Other projects funded under the Omnibus Appropriations bill are the Walter Clore Wine and Culinary Center in Prosser, which received 250,000. Also, funds ( 200,000) were provided to renovate a home for pregnant teens in the Tri Cities and 2 million was set aside for the state methamphetamine program. . Melissa Browning can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or e-mail mbrowning@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101163777028","Title":"Elerding sets State qualifying times","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"1/28/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"YAKIMA - Competing against Moses Lake this past Saturday at Lion's Pool in Yakima, Alderwood Christian High School junior Patrick Elerding swam two State meet qualifying times. Elerding posted a time of 22.50 seconds in the 50-yard freestyle, and clocked a 1:01.51 in the 100-yard breaststroke. Both efforts by Elerding were first place finishes. Elerding has set State meet qualifying times in all seven events in which he has competed this season. He has also scored a first place finish in every race in which he has competed. The Alderwood Christian High School student will next compete at the District championships Feb. 6-7. He has elected to swim the 100-yard breaststroke and 100-yard butterfly"}
{"Id":"1101163793294","Title":"REC funding announcement expected by Feb. 2 meeting","Author":"John Panni","Time":"1/28/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"No announcement came this past Monday night on whether or not Alderwood had been granted the 100,000 it was seeking from the Lower Alderwood County Rural Enterprise Community (REC). Interim City Manager Bruce Rinz told the Alderwood City Council that he is expecting an answer from the non-profit agency within the next few days. Rinz is expecting to have a decision from Yakima County, which oversees the management of the REC group, by the Feb. 2 meeting. The City of Alderwood is one of several entities vying for more than 100,000 the REC group will be awarding for Lower Valley projects. City leaders submitted a proposal for all of the REC funds to help with the maintenance of SunnyView Park, including the construction of a skateboard park, which Alderwood resident Danny Mendoza has been trying to put together for numerous years. Other projects in the running for the REC funds include a proposal to install playground equipment in Grandview parks, a Washington State Migrant Council proposal for REC to fund youth programs at the Alderwood Community Center, and the Grandview Port District, the City of Grandview and Yakima Valley Community College requesting 72,500 to help fund the establishment of a grape and wine education center at the former Grandview Safeway store. Some of the other projects include a request from Alderwood Community Hospital to provide funding for health care career projects and from Alderwood Inc. to aid with holding seminars for small business owners. Dr. Jim Stevens stepped before the Council asking for the body's support of the skateboard project even if the REC group doesn't provide funding for SunnyView Park. Stevens said he felt what Mendoza has been trying to do with constructing the skateboard park is \"incredible.\" Stevens said he felt the Council and the entire community should assist Mendoza with his project. . John Panni can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or email him at mPanni@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101163793559","Title":"Where's the beef...from","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"1/28/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Where's the beef\" was one of the most clever TV advertising campaign lines of the last quarter century. Today, American consumers are asking, \"Where's the beef from?\" You could ask Congress. Unfortunately, some members are too busy producing congressional \"pork\". This week, the National Farmers Union released the results of a national survey that show consumers want mandatory country-of-origin labeling (COOL), prefer U.S.-labeled food and are willing to pay for it. The poll, conducted by Penn, Schoen & Berland Associates, Inc., found that consumers overwhelmingly support country-of-origin labeling. The following questions were asked: Do you think food should be labeled with country of origin information? 82% said \"yes\". As a consumer, would you be more or less inclined to buy food produced in the United States? 85% said \"yes\". Would you be willing to pay a few cents more for food products grown and/or raised in the U.S.? 81% said \"yes\". The results are as striking as they are urgent. When Congress passed the 2002 farm bill, COOL was included. Funding of this important provision still required congressional appropriation. Sadly, it has been delayed for two years by Congress' failure to appropriate the necessary funds. The omnibus appropriations bill, passed Jan. 22, 2004, did not include funding because certain House members opposed funding COOL. Despite consumer concerns, agriculture producer support for COOL, and the suspension of U.S. beef imports by foreign governments, the Congress has failed to deliver. As National Farmers Union President Dave Frederickson has said, \"U.S. farmers want COOL, 82 percent of American consumers request it, and the U.S. Senate directed conferees not to include the COOL delay in the omnibus spending bill. It is unfortunate that Congress and the administration would ultimately ignore the will of so many Americans to benefit a handful of companies.\" At a May 2, 2003, USDA listening session in Pasco, I testified on behalf of Farmers Union. Many cattle producers and other agriculture producers also testified that day. The testimony was overwhelmingly supportive of COOL. The hotel parking lot was full of pickup trucks just like mine. They came from Washington, Oregon and Idaho. The corporate participants' jets parked at the airport down the street offered a sharp contrast, just like their opposition to COOL. Rest assured, the issue is not resolved. Producers and consumers are united and we will not give in to congressional indifference. COOL remains an issue in the countryside; a top priority issue with National Farmers Union; and we will make sure it continues to be an issue in Congress. Jim Davis is a resident of Coulee City, Wa., and is President of the Washington Farmers Union"}
{"Id":"1101163793856","Title":"Forum","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"1/28/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"1-Column Spray paint sales I, like so many others in Alderwood, have been concerned about the numerous incidents of graffiti, both in town and in the county areas. Because of this concern I share a recent incident. I was in line at a large retail chain store located here in Alderwood, waiting to pay for my purchases. Ahead of me were five or six teenage boys who must have had 20 to 25 cans of spray paint. As I watched them purchase this spray paint I was surprised that no questions of ID or age were asked by the clerk. (I thought you had to be over 18 to buy spray paint.) I was next in line and I asked the clerk if you have to show ID to purchase spray paint, and she said no. Then, much to my surprise, because one of the items I was buying was a box of Advil cold medicine I was asked to show the clerk my driver's license, and I am well over 18! I guess the moral of the story is...if you are sick be prepared to show ID at this store, but you can buy all the spray paint you want, no questions asked. Perhaps the Alderwood City Council and Tom Seeger could talk to that particular chain store's manager and get them to stop selling spray paint to minors. If they do have that policy, then they need their checkout clerks to enforce it, not overlook it. /s/ Katie Martin, Alderwood Vote yes Feb. 3 I am writing to ask everybody to vote YES for both the Alderwood school bond and special levy on Feb. 3. Check out the financial information provided in the school district's latest newsletter, in former Superintendent Mac Chambers' letter to the Alderwood Daily News and in the support committee's flyer. The figures make sense. The Alderwood School District boards of education have a history of looking ahead to make sure that proper and sufficient housing is provided for students. I think this bond and levy is another positive step in that direction. So please, vote on Feb. 3 and vote YES for the bond and YES for the special levy. /s/ Martha Stewart, Alderwood Vote yes twice Before long the patrons of the Alderwood School District will have the opportunity to vote on a special levy and a building bond issue in support of quality schools. For many years we never had the opportunity to vote for a levy. The only that was submitted to voters in the district was a bond to build new buildings. The absence of a levy, although keeping our taxes at a minimum, meant that other people in the state were doing at least as much as we were to fund our school system. Now, with the increased demands placed on education with the President's Leave No Child Behind concept and the somewhat infamous WASL, we need to pay special attention to our specific needs with increased enrollments leading the way. We live in a time of state matching funds, levy equalization monies and other financial advantages that play a big role in helping us determine the special value of levies for programs and bonds for buildings. The only way to qualify for these additional monies is to pass a levy and a bond. In proposing the levy, the school district has gone out of its way to keep taxes at a minimum. In fact, Alderwood is one of the lowest taxed districts in the state. With the past levy and bond we have gotten a considerable bang for our buck. Approving the new opportunity before us will increase our tax levels only slightly and will assure the construction of at least one new facility for our expanding populations, and maintain certain programs that are of value to our students and to the quality way of life we enjoy in our fair community. We have the opportunity to bring at least 40 million new dollars into our district by voting yes twice. Please, vote YES for the levy and YES for the bond. Do it for the kids. /s/ Jim Galbraith, Alderwood Tort reform It is clear Washington state's medical liability system is broken. The recent news that emergency room doctors and hospitals across the state have lost their malpractice insurance are just more examples. Jackpot jury awards and settlements are making medical liability insurance either unaffordable or completely unavailable. Ultimately, this hurts patients. All patients. For many physicians, even those without complaints against them, skyrocketing medical liability insurance premiums are forcing them to limit high risk services, move out of state or close completely. If this continues patients will have much less access to delivery rooms, operating rooms and doctors' offices, along with limited access to specialists in emergency rooms. Tort reform is essential if we want people in this state to have continued access to quality health care. Limiting medical malpractice awards is good public policy that puts more money in the hands of the injured patients, instead of in the hands of personal injury lawyers. Doctors and patients should contact their legislators and urge them to pass meaningful tort reform, including a cap on non-economic damages, before physicians can no longer afford to provide essential medical treatments. /s/ Dennis & Darla Williams, Port Orchard"}
{"Id":"1101163794106","Title":"Alderwood building projects in December total $353,781","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"1/27/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"In just a little less than two months, Gayle Hays of the Alderwood Beauty Academy is hoping to be able to move her beauty school from the four-room building she is currently renting to a new 2,520 square foot facility being finished at 440 Barnard Blvd., in the Horizons Inc. building owned by the Port of Alderwood. Hays said she is expecting to move her school from its current East Edison Avenue location to its new home on Port property in roughly 45 days. Travis Jansen, Port of Alderwood project administrator, said the 2,520 square foot space in the Horizons Inc. building has been available for lease since last January. He noted that when the Horizons Inc. portion of the building was completed two additional spaces were left unfinished. He said the Port left them unfinished so the sections of the building could be finished to suit whoever the leasee ended up being. Jansen said the Port is paying to have the portion of the building finished, noting that it hopes to recoup its costs by leasing the location. In December alone, the Port of Alderwood applied for four building permits from the City of Alderwood building division for the project, including permits for plumbing, mechanical and a water meter. Hays said once the space is finished she will have five sinks, 20 student stylist stations on the main floor, a basic classroom and a facial room. She said the floor plan also calls for a storage room, an office and a student lounge. Hays said the classroom will have the capability of handling anywhere from 10 to 20 people and the facial room will house two facial tables, which are tables a person can lie down on while receiving a facial treatment. According to Hays, in the new building she will be able to handle approximately 30 students through the Alderwood Beauty Academy, which was started in September 2003. Hays said she chose the Port property because of its close proximity to Alderwood High School and the Mid-Valley Mall, as well as the fact that the building features good parking, lighting and is handicap accessible. \"Everything was good about it,\" Hays said of the Port property. Another project that has been ongoing since the beginning of December, has been the expansion of Dr. Randall Schuler's office at 1725 E. Lincoln Ave. Dec. 5, DeVos Builders applied for a building permit with the City of Alderwood building division for work on the office. Eileen Timmermans, Schuler's office manager, said the expansion includes an office, a new lab and additional storage space. She said the lab will be used to make retainers and plaster casts of teeth. Timmermans said both services are currently offered at the facility, however the expansion of the office will allow more space for the work to be done. Timmermans said work on the office expansion should be completed by March or April. The building permits issued for work on the new beauty academy and Schuler's office are five of 41 permits issued by the City of Alderwood in December. All told, the total valuation of the 41 projects is 353,781. The Alderwood building division also conducted 376 inspections during the month of December. More than half of the 41 permits issued last month were building permits, with 21 being issued by the city. Eight of the permits were for mechanical work and six were for plumbing projects. The remaining permits were issued for everything from two water connections to a public works street excavation. . Ellie Olmsen can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or e-mail her at eOlmsen@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101163794340","Title":"AHS athletic code committee asks for written input","Author":"Jamie Smart","Time":"1/27/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"Written recommendations with specific details was called for during Monday night's meeting of the Alderwood High School Athletic Code Advisory Committee. While parents were more inclined to voice rather than write down their concerns, most agreed written copies of their concerns, complete with examples of actual incidents, will help make it easier for the advisory committee to formulate any revisions to the code. Saying they just want the code to be fairly administered to all students, the parents are asking the advisory board to develop a clearer list of violation investigative procedures. The latest revision of the code, adopted by the Alderwood School District Board in June 2003, requires all AHS students wishing to participate in sports to abide by the athletic code. The code includes a long list of punishments, which range from being benched to being removed from the team, when athletes are suspected of drug and alcohol violations. The code, which also requires the signature of their parents for their child to participate, allows for an investigation into alleged violations with school administrators given the discretion to administer suitable discipline. Signing and supporting the code is not in question, say parents. What is in question is the vagueness of how discipline will be determined and administered when violations occur. \"We want more clarification in that portion of the code,\" said Susie Zamarron, who feels discipline is not applied equally to all athletes accused of violations. The 21-member advisory committee, which normally meets only three times during the school year, met in mid-December in response to parental concerns about what they called inequities in the existing athletic code of behavior, said Alderwood High School Athletic Director Bill Daley, who served as facilitator for last night's hearing. He said the athletic code advisory group is in the process of reviewing its mandatory athletic code, and will review all parent's written concerns before making its recommendations to the Alderwood School Board later this school year. Parent Daria Miller said parents want to have a clearer idea of who conducts the investigation of alleged code violations. \"We want a written check list, which outlines how administrative decisions are made,\" she said. While Monday's night's meeting did include a few tense moments, the parents left feeling their written recommendations would be discussed by the advisory committee at its Feb. 9 meeting. \"That's all we ask,\" said Zamarron. . Jamie Smart can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or you can e-mail her at jSmart@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101163794622","Title":"Calendar","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"1/27/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"4-calendar rev. updated 1/27/03 calendar Mondays Alderwood City Council meets Mondays at 7 p.m. at the Alderwood Law and Justice Center, Homer Street. Mondays Al-Anon meetings are held Mondays 7 to 8 p.m. at Alderwood Community Hospital in the main lobby. MONDAYS Alderwood TOPS (Take Off Pounds Sensibly) Chapter meets 6:30 to 7:30 p.m. at Alderwood Senior Citizen Center, 1400 Federal Way. Call 839-4992 for details. Mondays Alderwood Noon Rotary meets at noon at Snipes Mountain Brewery and Restaurant, Yakima Valley Highway. Third Mondays Lower Valley Christian Women meet at The Barn Restaurant, Wine Country Road, Prosser, at 11:30 a.m. Call 894-4610 for information. Tuesdays KOSMOS - over 50 singles group meets 6 to 8 p.m. For meeting place call Carol Cronin at 836-2921 or Bob Van Horn at 837-8485. Tuesdays Compassionate Connection Support Group meets at 3 p.m. at Sunny Spot Restaurant, Yakima Valley Highway. Call 837-2339 or 837-5406 for more information. Tuesdays Community Service Food Bank, at the Seventh-day Adventist Church, East Lincoln Avenue. Winter hours are 9 to 11:30 a.m. first Tuesday House committee of the VFW Sunny View Post #3482 meets at 6 p.m. at the post home, 615 North Ave. Second Tuesday Horizon Quilters Unlimited of Yakima Valley meets at 9:30 a.m. through noon at Immanuel Lutheran Church, 300 S. Euclid and 3rd, Grandview. For more information call 837-7069. Second Tuesday VFW Sunny View Post #3482 and Ladies Auxiliary meet at 7 p.m. at the post home, 615 North Ave. Second and fourth Tuesday Mabton Food Bank open from 10 a.m. to noon for pick-up or donations of food items at Mabton V.F.W. Hall across from Mabton High School. Call 894-4273 to arrange donations. Third Tuesdays American Veterans Post #95 meets at 132 Division, Grandview, at 7 p.m. Call 882-1058 for more information. Fourth Tuesdays The Alderwood Masonic Lodge No. 138, F.&A.M., meets at 7:30 p.m. Call Bill Flower, 837-3505 for details. Fourth Tuesdays Alderwood Garden Club meets at 1:00 p.m. Call 837-4138 for location. Wednesdays Alderwood Daybreak Rotary meets at 6:45 a.m. at Alderwood Community Hospital. Wednesdays Moms in Touch International, a non-denominational group that prays for children and schools, Call 837-3459 for day and location. First andthird Wednesdays Alderwood Chapter #134 Order of Eastern Star, meets at 8 p.m. at the Masonic Temple, Sixth and Harrison. Second Wednesdays Harrison Middle School Booster Club meets at 7:15 p.m. at the middle school library. Second Wednesdays Mabton VFW Post #10384 Barnard R. Christiansen Post meets at 7:30 p.m. at the Mabton post home, B. Street. Second andfourth Wednesdays Golden Agers potluck dinners and meetings at noon at the Alderwood Senior Citizen Center, 1400 Federal Way. Call 837-5572 for details. All persons age 55 and older are welcome. Second Wednesday Credit Professionals International meets every second and fourth Wednesday at 7 a.m. at Alderwood Community Hospital. Call Joyce Wells, 882-2248 for details. second Wednesdays Yakima Regional Clean Air Authority meets the second Wednesday of every month at 1:30 p.m. in room B33 at the Yakima County Courthouse. Fourth Wednesdays AmVets Post #3733 meets at SunnyView VFW Post #3482, 615 North Avenue. 7 p.m. thursdays Alderwood Kiwanis Club meets at 6:45 a.m. at Cactus Juice Cafe, 632 E. Decatur Ave. Meetings are open to the public. Thursdays Cribbage Club meets every Thursday at 7 p.m. at the Eagles Lodge, South Hill Road. For more information, contact Linda Johnson, 837-5636. Thursdays TOPS #Wa. 1232 Grandview meets at 8 a.m. through 10 a.m. at Immanuel Lutheran Church, 300 S. Euclid, Grandview. Call 882-5525 for more information. Second Thursdays The Lower Valley Fibromyalgia Support Group, a Lower Valley Hospice Education Outreach Program, meets at Alderwood United Methodist Church, Ninth Street and E. Edison Avenue, 6-7:30 p.m., Edison Avenue entrance. Call 837-4818 for details. Second Thursdays Grandview VFW Post #6929 meets at 7 p.m. at the post home, 132 Division St., Grandview. SECOND THURSDAY Alderwood Ministerial Association meets second Thursdays of each month. For more information call 837-2734. (not meeting in June, July, or August or the first Thursday of April.) Second and fourth Thursdays Regular meeting dates for the Alderwood Lions Clubs. Meetings are held at Alderwood Library 6:30 p.m. Call 839-2574 for membership information. Fourth Thursdays Alderwood School Board meets the last Thursday of each month at 7 p.m. at the Denny Blaine Building, Custer Avenue. Lower Valley Bridge Club Meets Thursdays at 10:30 a.m., and Mondays at 7:30 p.m. at Alderwood Banner Bank, East Edison Avenue. Last Thursday Lower Valley Diabetic Support Group, at Alderwood Community Health and Information Center, Ninth Street and Franklin Avenue, 7 p.m. No charge for attending. Call 837-1624 for details. Second Fridays Sunny Valley Grange #870 meets at 8 p.m. at the grange hall, Factory Road. A potluck and social is held on the fourth Friday of each month at 6:30 p.m. Fridays Consumer Credit Counseling every Friday in Alderwood at Banner Bank of Washington. Call 1-800-273-6897 for an appointment. Wednesdays Lower Valley Toastmasters meets at 6:30 a.m. at the Alderwood Community Hospital administrative conference room. Call Joanna at 837-5833 for more information. FRIDAYS Adolescent pregnancy and parenting program in Alderwood at Planned Parenthood office. Call 837-5005 for more information. mondays and wednesdays and fridays Ministerial Food Bank at 8:30-11:30 a.m. at 8th and Decater in Alderwood. Call 837-6754 for details"}
{"Id":"1101163794887","Title":"Fire department starting cadet program","Author":"Melissa Browning","Time":"1/26/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"Alderwood firefighter Josh Roe knows first-hand how important a cadet program can be to a community. A former fire cadet himself, Roe got his first taste of what it means to be in the fire prevention service as a high school student. After he graduated from the cadet program he became a volunteer firefighter and now he is a full-time firefighter/paramedic for the Alderwood Fire Department. While a cadet, his passion for the fire service developed and he now is a career member of the local fire department. Wanting to provide local students with the same opportunities, Roe is starting the Alderwood Fire Department cadet program. Currently, Roe is taking applications from those interested in participating in the cadet program, which he said is much like the Alderwood Police Department's Explorer program. The fire cadet program is open to high school students 16 and older who attend school in Alderwood. The program is limited to six cadets, said Roe. The program, he said, is a good way to develop and grow the volunteer fire department. \"It's a great way for students to learn if they want to pursue a career in the fire service,\" said Roe. He added that the cadet program is designed to give students an in-depth look at being a firefighter before they have to make final career decisions. Cadets will not be participating in live fire training or in a capacity that will take them into burning buildings, said Roe. Rather, cadets will provide support service for the fire department and help with clean-up. Currently, volunteer firefighters are providing the support, said Roe. The cadets will free them up for more active roles on a fire scene. Cadets will also be participating in Alderwood Fire Department trainings at the fire station twice a month. The first thing the cadets will learn will be basic life-saving skills. They will be trained in first aid and CPR, said Roe. In March, they will have hands-on fire training, he added. Cadet applications are available at the Alderwood Fire Department. Roe has also visited PRIDE High School, Alderwood Christian High School and Alderwood High School to drum up interest in the program. \"I have given out many applications,\" said Roe. So far he has received three back. The applications can be returned to the Alderwood Fire Department. They are due Feb. 1. Applicants will go through a process similar to the firefighter hiring process, according to Roe. Students will be required to complete a physical agility test, and they will undergo an oral board and a chief's interview. \"We hope to have the students selected by Feb. 13,\" Roe added. Roe's vision for the group is that it would be self-sustaining. So far, the cadet program has received donations from several groups in Alderwood, including the Alderwood Kiwanis Club. Roe said the funds he has collected will be used to pay for a fund-raiser for the cadets. He said the cadets will be making and selling posts with numbers on them that can be placed near the road so that fire personnel can more easily find residences in case of emergency. . Melissa Browning can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or e-mail mbrowning@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101163795122","Title":"From chickens to dogs, local animal control officer takes care of it all","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"1/26/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"Those who think of local animal control officer Vaughn Merry as simply a dog catcher don't know just how wrong they are. In fact, people living in the 1200 block of East Kearney Avenue found out Thursday afternoon just how wrong that train of thought can be, as they watched Merry from their picture windows track a chicken from one back yard to another. Merry did admit that the chicken hunt he was led on Thursday was the exception to the rule. Typically, the Humane Society animal control officer deals with cats and dogs. Although he did mention having to chase a steer through Alderwood this past summer. \"The cow was mad,\" Merry said, noting that during the animal's rampage through the city it charged a vehicle on Parkland Drive, took out a porch and a fence and rammed into his vehicle. He said it took two cowboys from a local ranch to finally collect the animal and get it put into a trailer for transport. However, not every day is as exciting as that one. Merry said he typically comes in contact with 10 to 15 animals a day, although he noted that during the summer that number is a little higher. Merry said he has found since taking the position last July that there seems to be more animals to deal with at the beginning of the week, than at the end. Merry said a majority of the calls he responds to in Alderwood are animal nuisance calls or reports of dogs at large. He said it is also not unusual for him to receive calls from the local schools asking him to come and pick up a dog that may have followed a boy or girl to school that day. He said when this happens he typically talks to the child, finds out where they live, then delivers the animal back to its home. When not responding to calls, Merry patrols local neighborhoods looking for loose animals roaming from one place to another. Merry said when he finds a loose animal he will try to follow it back to its home, if it has one. When he finds out where the animal lives he talks to the dog's owner, issues them a warning and advises them to get their dog licensed. Merry said it's important that animals are licensed and tagged. He explained that if he picks up an animal with a tag that denotes where it lives, he will return the animal directly to its owner as opposed to hauling it to the Humane Society in Yakima. Having identification on an animal also prolongs the amount of time it will be held at the shelter before it is put up for adoption. Patsy Dye, Humane Society of Central Washington shelter manager, said if an animal is picked up without any tags it is held for 48 hours before being put up for adoption. However, if there is a tag, or any identification on the animal at all, its owners are given five days to claim the animal before it is put up for adoption. Merry said being an animal person himself, it is difficult for him not to adopt each of the animals he picks up. However, he said after the first few months of working for the Humane Society, and after adopting several animals, he came to an important realization. He said he realizes now that he can see the animals every day at the shelter, and if an animal is adopted it means they are going to a loving home. Dye explained that animals aren't just adopted out to anyone. She said a family has to come in and fill out a questionnaire, then Humane Society staff members decide, by looking at the questionnaire, whether or not the family is a good match for the animal they have picked out to adopt. She said if everything checks out, then the animal is sent to a veterinarian, where it is spayed or neutered, and the family is then able to pick up the animal the next day. The cost to adopt a pet is 70 for dogs and 65 for cats, which includes the cost of the animal's first shots and the spaying or neutering. Merry, who serves as the animal control officer for Alderwood and Toppenish, said the contract between the Humane Society and the City of Alderwood is for the control of cats and dogs in the city limits. He explained that he regularly catches dogs, however the only way he is allowed to catch a cat is using a trap. He said he has two cat traps he checks out to people who are having problems with the animals. He then collects the cats in the traps. However, Merry said if the cats collected are feral they ultimately have to be put down, with other friendlier cats going through the same process dogs do, which includes being adopted. As for dogs, Merry said they are only euthanized as a last resort, if the animal is in bad health and won't survive. According to a report from the Humane Society recently presented to the Alderwood City Council, in 2003, the Humane Society housed more than 11,000 animals, including 504 from Alderwood. Of those, 290 were dogs, of which 132 were euthanized. There were also 178 cats picked up in Alderwood, of which 125 had to be put down. Euthanizing animals is one of the things Merry doesn't enjoy about his position. Another responsibility Merry has that isn't too pleasant, is picking up dead animals off the road. Merry said overall he enjoys the time he gets to spend in Alderwood, which averages out to about 20 hours a week. Merry explained that when he isn't in town, people can still get their animal problems taken care of. He said if someone calls in a report of animals at large, he will typically wait until he is back in town to take care of the problem. However, if it's something along the lines of a vicious dog, there is always an animal control officer on call who will be dispatched to take care of the problem. Merry said there are several ways to go about collecting animals he needs to pick up. If the animal is vicious, he uses an apparatus called a catch pole, which is a long metal pole with a cable running through it. The cable is used to get ahold of the dog, without having to get too close to it. If an animal is trying to run away from the animal control officer, Merry said he uses something called a snappy snare, which is a net-like object, that helps restrain the animal. However, Merry said often times catching an animal is a lot easier than that. He said if it's a friendly animal all he usually has to do is call out to it and it will come running. \"If it's friendly, I'll just pick it up and put it in the truck,\" Merry said. . Ellie Olmsen can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or e-mail her at eOlmsen@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101163795356","Title":"County still in top ten in teen birth rate","Author":"Jamie Smart","Time":"1/23/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"As President George W. Bush called for more federal funding for abstinence-based sex education in the schools and right-to-lifers marched in protest of the 31st anniversary of Roe-v-Wade abortion ruling, Alderwood High School students were voicing their own concerns about teenage pregnancies. The number of girls who may actually be pregnant and attending school may not be as high as some believe, it is still of concern to educators. While the number of AHS pregnant teens accounts for about 4 percent of the student body, countywide the number of teens, between the ages of 15 and 17, is as high as 62 per 1,000 women, according to new numbers released by the Washington State Department of Health. Alderwood High School officials say there are perhaps as many as 50 girls attending class who are already mothers or mothers-to-be, not 75 as rumored. The discussion surrounding teen pregnancy began prior to Christmas break when AHS students were asked their opinion on such issues as student drug and alcohol use as part of the school's on-going self-study program, said Diane Kilian, a high school student counselor. \"I don't think it (the number) is that high,\" said Kilian who works with a support group for teenage mothers. She said she works with the school's population of teenage mothers-to-be offering support and counseling to help keep the girls in school in order to earn their high school diploma. \"There is no way to tell how many girls may have been pregnant and chose to abort their babies,\" she said. \"But of those attending school in a population of 1,303 students, it is only about 50,\" she said. Kilian regularly meets with about 20 young women, who are either pregnant or trying to stay in school while caring for their youngsters. \"Our major goal is on keeping them in school, something they want to do in order to get their education,\" she said. Kilian said the reports of 75 or more Alderwood High School girls being pregnant may have been circulated as a result of questions included in the school's self-study that is currently being circulated among the students. \"But as far as I know there has not been a formal survey conducted pinpointing teen pregnancies among our students,\" Kilian said. Earlier this week, the DOH reported that fewer Washington teens became pregnant in 2002 and fewer had abortions in 2002 than in the previous year. The numbers published in the current \"Washington State Pregnancy and Induced Abortion Statistics\" report showed that the number of 15-19-year-olds having babies in Washington is lower than the national numbers. The DOH report said more Yakima County teens had abortions in 2002 than in 2001. The rate of pregnant teens having abortions went from 15 per 1,000 girls to 19. Yakima County continues to rank among the top 10 state counties reporting large numbers of teen pregnancies. Yakima County's birth rate was higher at 62 per 1,000, than the state rate of 33.0 per 1,000 teens. King and Pierce counties are still reporting the most teenage births. Nevertheless, nationwide, the birth rate for teens, ages 15-19, fell from 45.3 births per 1,000 teens in 2001 to 43 births in 2002. The state birth rate was 35.6 per 1,000 teens in 2001. The report also showed that fewer teens were seeking abortions statewide. The state abortion rate for teens in 2002 was 14 per 1,000 in the 15-17 age group. The state health report reported that in Yakima County, 241 live babies were born to teens in the 15-17 age group in 2002 out of a population of 5,664 teens. . Jamie Smart can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or you can e-mail her at jSmart@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101163795590","Title":"Start honing skills, Hospice youth talent show scheduled","Author":"Melissa Browning","Time":"1/23/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"The chairperson of the fifth annual Hospice Talent Show knows first-hand how Hospice can help a family. \"My two grandpas both had cancer and Hospice did wonders for my family,\" said Chelsea Durfey, talent show chairperson. The Alderwood High School junior is in the midst of planning for the coming talent show, which is scheduled for Friday, March 12, at 7 p.m. at the Alderwood High School auditorium. Money raised in the talent show will benefit Lower Valley Hospice. She got involved in the talent show last year, helping chairman Jordan Visser in the planning process. The Hospice Talent Show is a project sponsored by the Alderwood High School leadership class. \"Five years ago there were some people in the leadership class who thought we should do a service project,\" said Durfey. With the birth of the talent show has come a way for youths 12 to 19 to show off their talents and also a way to give back to Hospice, according to Durfey. This year, she said the leadership class has been very helpful in planning the talent show. Durfey said members of the class have sought out donations and helped promote the event. The talent show is open to students ages 12 to 19 from as far away as Yakima and the Tri-Cities. \"We are trying to get more participants this year,\" said Durfey. She is encouraging people to start practicing for the audition, which will be Saturday, March 6, from 2:30 to 4:30 p.m. \"We want a variety of talents,\" said Durfey. \"It would be great to see juggling, dancing, singing, gymnastics and art. It will make it more interesting.\" There is a 10 auditioning fee for those interested in participating in the show. Currently, members of the leadership class are looking for donations of prizes to be raffled off at the talent show and also for cash donations that can be used as prizes for the talent show winners. Durfey said they plan to present awards to the top three finishers in the talent show. \"We're looking to raise the most money possible for Hospice,\" said Durfey. \"We think the talent show will be a great way to help Hospice and draw people in our community together.\" Tickets for the talent show will be available at the door on the day of the event. Anyone wanting to donate to the talent show can contact Durfey, 837-4428. . Melissa Browning can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or e-mail mbrowning@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101163833669","Title":"Red wine, chocolate fest scheduled Feb. 13","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"1/23/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"PROSSER - Like red wine? Chocolate? If so, plan on attending the ninth annual \"An Intimate Red Wine & Chocolate Affair\" Friday, Feb. 13, at the Prosser Community Center. The 7 to 9 p.m. event will feature red wine sampling, as well as indulging in a cornucopia of white, milk, dark and bittersweet chocolate. The Friday night event is the kick-off to the Yakima Valley Winery Association's three-day \"Red Wine and Chocolate Weekend,\" where participating wineries will feature samplings of red wine and chocolates. The Feb. 13 event is again being sponsored by the Lower Valley Hospice organization. Event organizers say the fourth annual \"Ultimate Chocolate Judgment\" contest will be held that night, as well. The chocolate entrees will be judged by a panel of chocolate connoisseurs, with a 150 cash prize to be presented to the \"Judges Award\" winner. For entry information and rules call 837-1676. Tickets to the red wine and chocolate evening's activities, priced at 20 for singles and 35 for couples, are available at the Lower Valley Hospice office on Outlook Road in Alderwood. Talent contest needs performers TOPPENISH - Cash prizes ranging from 75 to 300 will be awarded during tomorrow night's amateur talent contest at the Fraternal Order of Eagles lodge in Toppenish. The Saturday, Jan. 24, show is open at no cost to all Eagles members and their guests. For show time information and to sign up to compete contact Julie or Pam at the Toppenish lodge at (509) 865-2229. Western Swing band to perform Sunday, Feb. 8 TOPPENISH - The Western Swing band of Smiley Davis will perform at the Fraternal Order of Eagles lodge in Toppenish on Sunday, Feb. 8. The 3 to 8 p.m. dance is open to all Eagles members and their guests. The day's activities will also include a one-hour open microphone session, as well as a potluck dinner. Farming, ranching equipment to be displayed Jan. 27 PORTLAND, ORE. - An estimated 40 million worth of farming and ranching equipment will be on display at the 35th annual Northwest Agricultural Show at the Oregon Expo Center, Jan. 27-29. Equipment and tool manufacturers, as well as providers of services for the agricultural community, will be on hand. Antique and restored farm equipment will be a featured attraction at this year's show. Also, in conjunction with the ag show the Oregon Horticultural Society, the Nut Growers Society of Oregon and the Oregon Association of Nurseries will hold business meetings and educational seminars those three days. Show hours will be from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. on Jan. 27, from 10 a.m. to 9 p.m. on Jan. 28 and from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. on Jan. 29. Admission is 5 for adults. Children under 12 will be admitted free. Adams, Floridis in concert Feb. 6 YAKIMA - The Yakima Folklife Concert Series will present Jenn Adams and John Floridis on stage in the Great Hall of the Yakima Valley Museum on Friday, Feb. 6. Rolling Stone describes Adams as \"...a genuine talent,\" describing the guitarist as having a clear voice and creating poetic music. Floridis, according to The Missoulian, is a \"...consummate guitarist/songwriter with a sensitivity and control that is truly mind-boggling.\" Both artists will be performing with a back-up band. Tickets for the 7:30 p.m. performance will be available at the door of the museum that night, and are priced at 11 for adults and 5 for children"}
{"Id":"1101163833935","Title":"Smart Beat","Author":"Jamie Smart","Time":"1/23/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"Several of us were standing around the lunchroom coffee pot the other day bemoaning the quickly approaching Valentine's Day - considered by some as the most romantic day of the year. I'm ready for February and Valentine's Day so I won't look so foolish surrounded by all my leftover Christmas red decorations. But I digress. My co-workers were of mixed opinions about what should ideally happen on Valentine's Day in their personal relationships. While most agreed that too much emphasis is placed on the mid-February holiday set aside for lovers, all agreed it is hard not to get excited about their spouses and boyfriends possibly surprising them with some sweet token of their heartfelt affection. Still there were a few sad stories of Valentine's Days gone awry. Not all of us have the resources to fly to Hawaii for a sexy weekend on the beach spent learning to surf and snorkel. Not all of us can charter a plane for an evening at the opera in, oh, say Italy! In Alderwood, if we want a cozy candlelight dinner for two, the romantic mood is usually ruined by someone cursing as they stub a toe on an misplaced bowling ball overlooked in the shadows. But, again, I digress. \"I always make too much of Valentine's Day,\" admitted one co-worker. \"I want perfection and I'm always disappointed when my expectations fall well short of reality,\" she said. \"Been there, done that\" a few times myself. After years of celebrating my share of pathetic Valentine's Days, I now try not to view Valentine's Day as that most special of all romantic holidays. I try to view it as a day to celebrate my deep affection for a few close friends, namely my faithful dog, \"Mister,\" and my imperious cat, \"Mouse.\" It's a lousy compromise I realize, but it's one I've made after years of being single. Over the years, rather than settle for being disappointed by the lack of romance in my life, I have learned to plan my own Valentine's Day observations. I revel in discovering silly bits of Valentine trivia to share. For example, according to legend, Valentine's Day has been linked with love and friendship since ancient Roman days when the young men and women celebrated Lupercalia. As part of the celebration, the names of single young people were randomly drawn to see who would be partners for the next year. It was up to the young people to decide if anything was to come of the couplings. These days, rather than wear my heart on my sleeve like the Medieval girls and boys did, I simply go buy myself a valentine and a nice fat box of chocolates, a tradition that was the bright idea of candy maker Richard Cadbury in the late 1800s. Now there was a guy who knew how to celebrate. I prefer my chocolates with a nice bottle of Yakima Valley red wine (my valentine of choice). Getting flowers any day of the week is a lovely idea, according to my friendly neighborhood florist. Local flower merchants are busy laying in their supply of blood red roses, considered to be the sign of true love. But, as Mark Cook of Morris Floral, will tell you - do not procrastinate about ordering your loved one her delivery of fresh roses. The shops have been known to run out. This year, even I might just go out and get myself a single red rosebud. It'd be nice to create a little mystery. A rose on one's desk always seems to solicit \"who're the flowers from\" questions. I'll just smile and shrug my shoulders. After all, I don't want to appear to be the only lonely heart on the block"}
{"Id":"1101163834169","Title":"Para-educator uses stuffed animals to encourage reading","Author":"Melissa Browning","Time":"1/22/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"MABTON - Artz-Fox Elementary School para-educator Teresa St. George likes to shop at yard sales. While \"shopping\" she has found numerous dolls, stuffed animals and other toys that she has used in the Artz-Fox I-Mac lab, where she spends her mornings, helping encourage kids to read. On a shelf in the class, St. George has her \"Arthur\" books sitting next to the stuffed figures of \"Arthur,\" the character in the books. Next to the section dedicated to \"Arthur\" are several bright, red stuffed Clifford dogs along with books about the big red pooch. St. George displays books on dinosaurs next to plastic tyrannosaurus figures, as well as a toy train to accompany the book \"The Little Engine that Could.\" Some of the figures have sayings they repeat with the press of a button and others are just nice to cuddle with. One of the largest displays in the I-Mac lab features characters and figures by Dr. Seuss. St. George said students will come in and play with the dolls when they have free time or after testing they will grab a book, which they can read for the accelerated reader program. But the computer lab has more than just books, computers and dolls in it. Around the ceiling the phrase \"I love to read\" is translated into 20 different languages. \"It helps the kids to realize there is more than just English and Spanish,\" said St. George. She also has a section of the room that features books in other languages and candy wrappers from Japan, where her son lived for two years. While in the morning St. George mostly focuses on typing skills and testing students, her afternoons are spent in the classroom helping students develop a love for reading. \"I think the stuffed animals help them want to read,\" she said. \"It gets them interested in a book.\" . Melissa Browning can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or e-mail mbrowning@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101163834403","Title":"Grandview wrestler doesn't let pain pin him down","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"1/22/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"GRANDVIEW - Watching Grandview High School wrestlers practice after school, one would never guess that among the more than 20 athletes is one who is working through a painful disease. Grandview High School sophomore Michael Benavidez has been living with rheumatoid arthritis since he was diagnosed at age eight. Benavidez said because of the disease there are days when he can't practice and other days when he can't compete. Elisa Benavidez, Michael's mother, said her son was diagnosed with rheumatoid arthritis after several visits to the doctor as a young boy. She said when Michael was eight, one of his ankles started swelling and hurt to the touch. Elisa said she and her husband, Andy, took Michael to the doctor, who told them it was most likely a spider bite. However, when their son's ankle continued to swell off and on every few weeks they decided to get a second opinion. She said there were times when Michael's ankles would hurt so badly that his parents couldn't even touch him. The need for a second opinion led the family to Children's Hospital in Seattle, where Michael was diagnosed with rheumatoid arthritis. Elisa said at the time doctors said the disease is heredity, but could also be from an old sports injury. However, for Michael, being diagnosed with rheumatoid arthritis at a young age didn't stop him from being an active child. Instead, he jumped right into wrestling as a fourth grade student. Michael said he started competing in a children's league after his father introduced him to the sport. Elisa said Andy has always been a wrestling fan. So when Michael, whose older brother Andrew also wrestles, made it to high school, being a member of the wrestling team seemed like a natural thing to do. \"I like the competition, and it keeps it me in shape,\" Michael said of wrestling. Although this is Michael's second season with the high school team, it hasn't always been easy for the 140-pound wrestler. He said there are mornings when he wakes up and his ankles are stiff and painful and he knows he won't be able to practice. He said the pain comes at least once every two weeks. Grandview High School wrestling coach Jeff Sevigny said Michael missed about half the season last year due to his arthritis flaring up, and so far this year has missed about half of the season. However, Sevigny said Michael is a hard working member of the team, and has a lot of talent on the mat. So much talent and dedication that when Michael decided at the beginning of the season that he wasn't going to try out for wrestling this year, Sevigny approached him. \"He's a great kid,\" Sevigny said. This season Sevigny said he has made some allowances for Michael. When the other wrestlers are running on the hard gym floor at practice, Michael is using a stationary bicycle, which means less impact on his ankles. Wrestling isn't the only sport Michael has participated in during his two years in high school. Elisa said as a freshman he also played football. However, on his doctor's recommendation he didn't try out for the football team this year. \"The doctor said it would be easier to do one sport,\" Michael said. So he chose wrestling. Michael said he enjoys the competition that comes with the one-on-one sport. He is 9-8 this season, and likes that it helps keep him in good shape. Elisa said one difficult thing for Michael over the years has been being able to tell when his rheumatoid arthritis is acting up in his ankles, to the point that he shouldn't be practicing or playing on it. She said she can now tell, after living with the disease for eight years, when Michael is feeling pain. She said she can often see it in the way he walks. \"Only he knows his pain tolerance,\" she said, although she noted that it is very high. Elisa noted that if he tells you he is in a lot of pain, his ankles are usually hurting him pretty badly. Michael said although he is taking medication for his rheumatoid arthritis, there are still days when he can't walk on his ankles. Despite this, Michael said he is planning on continuing wrestling throughout his high school career. . Ellie Olmsen can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or e-mail her at eOlmsen@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101163834638","Title":"Pritchett, Gonzalez spark Alderwood girls to tie","Author":"Bob Story","Time":"1/22/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"The Alderwood High School girls bowling team claimed its first \"non-loss\" decision of the season this past Tuesday afternoon, tying the Pasco Bulldogs, 2-2. Junior Desiree Pritchett and senior Amber Gonzalez were the catalysts for Alderwood. Pritchett rolled a match best 299 two-game series on efforts of 169-130. Gonzalez added games of 153-127 for a 280 two-game series. The Lady Grizzlies topped Pasco in the opener, 682-634. Pritchett and Gonzalez's games of 169 and 153, respectively, paced Alderwood to the win. But, the Lady Grizzlies also got worthy efforts from senior Cassie Coder (146) and sophomore Katie Weets (122). Freshman Veronica Uribe rounded out the scoring for Alderwood in the first game with a 92. Pasco rebounded to win the second contest, 634-600. Freshman Jessica Weise led the Bulldogs to the second game win, rolling a 148. Alderwood's best effort in the second game was a 132, tossed by Weets. The Lady Grizzlies clinched at least a tie in Tuesday's match, staged at Alderwood's Valley Lanes, by winning the first of two Baker games, 128-127. The Baker format calls for each member of the five-girl squad to alternate taking turns throughout the 10 frames. Pasco rallied in the second Baker contest, winning 142-121, to square the match at 2-2. In JV action yesterday, Pasco and Alderwood followed the varsity's lead and tied the match at 2-all. The Lady Grizzly JV won the opening game, 555-530, and claimed victory in the second Baker game, 113-110. The Alderwood's JV top bowlers on Tuesday included Josefina Ramirez (122-113) and Cora Rodriguez (111-118"}
{"Id":"1101163834872","Title":"New traffic signal ok'd for Grandview","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"1/21/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"GRANDVIEW - After just recently completing the installation of a new traffic signal at the intersection of Wine Country Road and exit 73 off of westbound Interstate 82, the City of Grandview is ready to do it again. Tuesday night, Grandview City Council approved a resolution that will put the wheels in motion for another signalization project. The City of Grandview will begin work on the design phase for the addition of a traffic signal at the intersection of Wine Country Road and Elm Street, near Safeway. Grandview Public Works Director Cus Arteaga said funding for the project will come from both a Transportation Improvement Board (TIB) grant and the Washington State Department of Transportation (DOT). The city will receive 201,287 from the TIB Arterial Improvement Program, and 76,418 from DOT in the form of T-21 funds. Some funding for the project will also come Safeway. He explained that 10,000 was paid by the store when it was first constructed at the site, as part of mitigating costs associated with the additional traffic movements the store would bring. Councilwoman Helen Darr asked Arteaga how it had been decided that a signal was needed at that intersection. Arteaga explained that in the past the city had an engineer come out to the site and do a traffic study on the intersection. It was the engineer who determined there was enough traffic to warrant a signal. Arteaga added that passing through the intersection at busy of times of day, such as noon or right after work at 5 p.m., it can be hard to merge from one road onto the other. \"There's a lot of traffic at that intersection,\" Arteaga said. He also noted that this past summer a pedestrian was hit crossing the street at that intersection. Work on the signalization of the intersection will likely begin after July 1, 2004. . Ellie Olmsen can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or e-mail her at eOlmsen@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101163836200","Title":"Grandview teen serves as Senate page this week","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"1/21/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"OLYMPIA - Grandview High School sophomore Ashley Lara is serving as a Senate page this week for Sen. Jim Honeyford of Alderwood. Lara, a 10th grader at Grandview High School, is a member of the marketing club, the Key Club, the International Club and her church's youth group. She is a varsity cheerleader and golfer, and is enrolled in martial arts classes. However, this week, she is taking time away from her classroom studies and busy schedule to pursue other interests in history and politics. Lara is one of 23 junior high and high school students serving as Senate pages as part of a week-long program that teaches students about state government. As a page, she delivers mail, runs errands for senators and she will have the opportunity to present the flag. Pages also go to page school, where they learn about the legislative process and its participants. \"It's giving me experiences that I wouldn't otherwise have,\" said Lara. \"Everyone should do it. It's a great opportunity.\" As a sophomore, Lara is considering entering politics and she feels the senate page program is \"helping her decide whether [she] want[s] to be a senator.\" She said she has liked meeting different people that influence our state, especially Sen. Honeyford, who is sponsoring her as a page this week. \"He is a very nice person that is easy to listen and talk to,\" Lara said. \"I enjoy meeting with the students participating in the program,\" Honeyford said. \"It's great that such a wonderful opportunity exists for them to take part in.\" The senate page program is open to junior high and high school students. Those interested in being a page can go to the website http://www.leg.wa.gov/senate/sadm/senpage.htm"}
{"Id":"1101163836435","Title":"Gang-related clothing, symbols not allowed in Alderwood schools","Author":"Melissa Browning","Time":"1/21/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"Alderwood school personnel aren't letting their guard down...in terms of keeping all gang-related clothing and symbols out of local classrooms and off the playgrounds. Recently, administrators at Chief Kamiakin Elementary School included in their monthly newsletter to parents that all gang-related shirts and clothing were forbidden at the school. The newsletter also warned that any of the students' personal property that were inscribed with numbers or letters associated with gangs would be confiscated. The warning to parents about keeping gang-related materials out of the school was simply a reminder, says Chief Kamiakin Principal Dr. Carol Clarke. She explained that the issue hasn't become a problem. Rather, administrators are simply trying to keep it from developing into a problem. \"We've seen a couple of things with a few students wearing questionable clothing,\" said Clarke. Alderwood School District security liaison Fidel Partida, who's been at his job for 10 years, agrees with Clarke that gang activity in local schools, including the gang clothing and markings, is not on the rise. \"It's not as bad as it is in the community,\" said Partida. \"In the community it's mostly adults and some kids who have phased out of the schools.\" When Partida first began working for the school district, he set a goal for himself to help kids get out of gangs. \"We hit it hard,\" he said, explaining that school personnel, the local police department, counselors, juvenile probation officers and mental health workers worked together to curb gang activity. Partida said compared to what used to be confiscated years ago, the amount of inappropriate clothing, let alone weapons, taken from students today is next to nothing. In the past, he said, it wasn't uncommon to confiscate knives, bats and other miscellaneous weapons. He even remembers a sawed-off shotgun being confiscated. During the initial phases of the campaign to wipe out all traces of gang activity from the Alderwood schools, Partida collected what he refers to as his \"star of rags,\" which hung in his office. About four years into the campaign, Partida removed the gang bandannas from his office. Recently, though, he pulled the bandannas out of storage and started displaying them again...as a reminder of the importance of curbing gang activity. Partida said efforts to diminish gang activity are focused at the schools. \"This is where the recruiting happens,\" he said. \"As long as you keep the recruiting out of the schools, they don't have recruits. They don't have soldiers.\" Partida, as well as school district security liaisons Garin Moore and Dan Pacheco, have seen positive results come from their work in Alderwood. All three men said they have each had young men, former students, return and thank them for their work in the schools. \"We try to work with these kids and help them go to college and have a better life,\" said Pacheco. \"We're kind of like guardian angels for these guys.\" Most of the gang members in Alderwood are between the ages of 11 and 16, according to Moore. \"By the time they are 17 or 18, they start getting out of it,\" Moore added. All three of the security liaisons say they have seen success with their efforts. \"We try to hit them hard with the message, 'if you want respect gain it through sports and education',\" said Pacheco. Pacheco said he has even offered special incentives for some students, offering to buy them their cap and gown for their high school graduation ceremony. \"I had one individual who was really heavily involved in a gang,\" said Pacheco. He related that when the student left gangs behind and focused on education, he graduated and enlisted in the U.S. Marine Corps. \"He came back to see me and said, 'I'm giving back to this country',\" Pacheco recalled. Staying vigilant on keeping gang clothing and symbols out of the schools will ensure that even more local children will have brighter futures. Exactly what, you may ask, is not allowed at school in the way of clothing and personal property? The school district's student resource officer, Jim Rivard, said all Player brand t-shirts and pants are forbidden, as is any gang-related shirts, and any property with gang-related numbers or letters inscribed on it. Rivard says school officials are also concerned when backpacks and notebooks are found that have graffiti-type writing on them. Also banned is clothing that is marked with eight balls, happy/sad masks, known gang brands, the numbers 21, 13 and 14, Roman numerals XXI, XIV and XIII, as well as the lettering LVL, BGL and WSOS. . Melissa Browning can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or e-mail her at mbrowning@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101163836669","Title":"Forum","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"1/21/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"1-Column Investingin the future I would like to encourage all of you to vote yes for the Alderwood school bond and levy proposals. It would truly be a vote for the continuing educational success of our own Alderwood children. As an educator for the past 30 years in Alderwood schools, I will once again have the opportunity to have a part in the future of our own children in our own community by voting for these important proposals. I have personally experienced how teachers, administration, staff and parents have worked together diligently and continuously to help students improve learning skills and reach new heights. It is especially grafitying to me to see that many of our young people are going into helping professions. Our students have become nurses, dentists, missionaries, ministers, teachers, counselors, doctors, social workers and are serving in countless other helping occupations. Other students have pursued professional occupations but still make it a priority to help others. Our community should be very proud of these young people who are making a difference in the lives of others. So let's continue making educational strides and giving our students the best of what education can offer. The cost to the taxpayer is so minimal. One student can affect many lives in his or her lifetime. Imagine the rippling effect of a thousand students bringing service and joy to multitudes of people. Now that is an investment for the future! /s/ Peggy LaPierre, Outlook Door mat, or welcome mat? As human beings we are given life, choice and purpose. It is up to each of us to then go about our own journey through life. Wherever we are we have rights and responsibilities to ourselves, our families, friends and fellow humans to do something. When any citizen comes to our community, they must decide where to live, work, shop, go, stay, make friends, etc. There are countless clubs, organizations and activities here that you can join for dues, and yet there are also free, yes, I say FREE, meetings that are open to everyone...city council, planning commission, Port of Alderwood, school board, chamber of commerce, board of adjustment, to name just a few. You have to make the effort to go to the meetings; there is always an open invitation. Any citizen 18 years and older has the choice to register to vote, but with that comes responsibilities. If you want others to make decisions for you, then you have that right, to not participate. I urge everyone to step out in a leap of faith, attend any and all of these meetings, listen to what issues are being discussed and decided, and become a participant. The purpose of welcome mats or doormats is the same. It is only our perceptions that are different. I would much rather be a welcome mat than a doormat. How about you? /s/ Carol Stone, Alderwood"}
{"Id":"1101163836903","Title":"City Council opts to make collective bargaining discussions open to public","Author":"John Panni","Time":"1/20/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"The public's right to know ended up superseding city employee's rights to privacy during last night's Alderwood City Council meeting. For the past several months, Councilman Tom Seeger has been lobbying to have the Council open collective bargaining sessions with city employees' union representatives. In a couple of instances before last night, the Council rejected Seeger's idea of opening the collective bargaining sessions. But with a new Council in place, last night's vote went Seeger's way. Council members Jennie Angel and Alex de la Cruz were the only ones to vote against the measure, citing a need for the city to protect the privacy of its employees. The new amendment to the Council Rules of Procedure calls for all discussions and reports, except for the initial strategy session concerning collective bargaining, to be open to the public for discussion. The amendment also says the initial strategy session held in executive session will detail the city's plans for negotiations with the different union groups. Seeger provided some background for his reasoning as to why he has been pushing so hard to open the executive sessions to the public. Under the former system the Council had for negotiations, the governing body would meet in executive session to discuss the parameters for contract negotiations. The two sides would meet and discuss the proposals, followed by the Council meeting in executive session again to go over the counter proposals. When the two sides reached an agreement, a contract would be devised and presented in an open public session for approval. \"There is no public input on any of this,\" said Seeger. Seeger said under the old system once the new contract comes before the public, the Council has no choice but to approve it without the benefit of public input. \"The public is just flapping their jaws (if they talk about the contract when Council approves it) because if we vote no, we have a problem here with unfair labor practices,\" said Seeger. \"It is basically just a charade to bring (the contract) out here in public. The public has a right to know. It is their money.\" Councilman John Torch agreed with Seeger, saying he didn't realize when he was elected to Council that he wouldn't be able to discuss what was going on to his constituents. \"There is a place for executive session,\" said Torch. \"(But) we are spending the public's money. They have a right to know.\" Councilman Jim Sarducci explained to those in attendance the Council is not able to discuss what is going on in collective bargaining, but the different bargaining units aren't prohibited from going before the public with their version of events. \"It is important for the public to know what is going on in these executive sessions,\" said Sarducci. One of the concerns voiced by de la Cruz was opening collective bargaining discussions to the public there would be the likelihood that the process would take even longer than it does now. Interim City Manager Bruce Rinz said the overall process for bargaining wouldn't change, where each side meets with its representatives. The only area that would change would be receiving public input on the matter. de la Cruz was also concerned about making the personal information of public employees common knowledge. de la Cruz said through his brief discussions with staff members, he found out they would not appreciate the discussions taking place in public. \"I just worry about staff and how they are going to feel about it,\" said de la Cruz. \"We need to be supportive of our staff,\" added Angel. Angel said executive sessions serve a purpose, in this Sing it is to develop a strategy for negotiations. \"Executive session is for the benefit of the public,\" Angel said. But Sarducci disagreed with the comments by Angel. \"The public needs to know we are not doing anything secretively,\" said Sarducci. \"The public needs to know. They have a right to know. The public's right to know far outweighs our secrecy here.\" Sarducci told Angel that during the executive session at the beginning of his term, he didn't know what was going on because the matters being discussed weren't public knowledge. Sarducci further felt by making collective bargaining issues public it might relieve some of the pressures for city employees. Mayor Rex Luthor was in favor of Seeger's proposal, but expressed concern the different bargaining groups would try to start talks with Council members, once the matter became open to the public. Luthor wanted to make sure the Council left bargaining matters up to city staff. Mayor Pro-tem George Greenway said it has long been his goal to make the Council's business public knowledge. \"I think this is one area we can let the public know what we are doing,\" said Greenway. \"I think it is going to give the public an opportunity to see (how we work).\" Not everyone agreed. \"I think you guys are opening Pandora's Box,\" said Alderwood Firefighter Bob Johnson. Johnson warned the Council that opening discussions to the public could come back to haunt the Council members. Johnson said the public might feel city employees aren't being paid enough if the matter became public knowledge. Clint Carter, who works for the city's public works department, said salaries of city employees are public knowledge, but warned the Council that if the citizens are going to talk about salaries, then city employees weren't going to sit back and do nothing. \"The public employees are going to stand up at this podium and comment as well,\" said Carter. . John Panni can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or email him at mPanni@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101163840166","Title":"Synthetic Prion Causes Neurological Disease In Mice","Author":"Mel Sacher","Time":"1/20/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Scientists at Boynton Laboratories have produced a prion protein that can trigger the development of a neurological disorder in mice that is similar to \"mad cow\" disease, according to a new study announced by the Alderwood institute. The findings demonstrate that prions, an unusual class of infectious proteins, can make copies of themselves without the presence of viral DNA or RNA, damage brain tissue, and cause neurological diseases. The breakthrough by Dr. Philip Boynton, and colleagues Dr. A. VonRyker and Dr. D. Sanderson, was announced by Boynton spokesperson Laurel Sulfate and is scheduled to be published in an first-tier publication. For the study, Dr. Boynton and his colleagues produced prion protein fragments in bacteria, folded them into larger protein structures called amyloid fibrils, and then injected them into the brains of susceptible mice. The mice began exhibiting symptoms of disease in their central nervous systems. The amyloid form of the prion protein, which is thought to cause prion disease, was also found in the brains of the diseased mice. The researchers then administered brain extracts from these animals to another group of mice, which subsequently developed similar symptoms 90 to 150 days later. The disorder seems to be distinct from that caused by other known strains of prions, suggesting that the synthetic prion didn't merely activate a pre-existing prion in these mice and that the synthesized prion protein itself is sufficient to make infectious and disease-causing prions"}
{"Id":"1101163851247","Title":"Venison wasn't on brunch menu of Mabton couple Sunday","Author":"Jamie Smart","Time":"1/19/2003","Tag":null,"Content":" MABTON - Dale Knott of Mabton was getting ready for church Sunday, when a scream from his wife, Becky, sent him running into the couple's living room. There standing on the carpet was a startled young Mule deer. \"The dogs were chasing the deer and it just bolted into the house past Becky,\" said Knott. \"I didn't know what it was at first,\" he said. \"I thought it was just a big brown dog chasing her (Becky).\" The couple, who live near the Yakima River on Euclid Road, east of Mabton, have seen deer in the area before, but one has never been in the house before, Knott said. Knott said the animal wasn't scared once she got inside the house, allowing him and his wife to pet her while she camped out in their home. \"She wasn't afraid of us,\" he said. \"Once she got away from the dogs, she settled right down.\" The Mabton couple contacted state wildlife agents, who retrieved the young doe later Sunday afternoon. She will have to be rehabilitated to live in the wild, Knott said. It is against the law to tame wild animals, he said. He said the deer, they temporarily dubbed \"Bambi,\" will have to be checked for diseases before being reintroduced into the area herds. \"It was quite a morning,\" he added. . Jamie Smart can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or you can e-mail her at jSmart@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101163851513","Title":"Harris, Castillo top Alderwood firemen","Author":"Melissa Browning","Time":"1/16/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"In 2002 the Alderwood volunteer firefighter started honoring paid fire department staff for their work in the department at the end of the year banquet held in December. For 2003, they chose firefighter/paramedic Bill Harris. It was the second consecutive year Harris won the award. Harris, 28, has been with the Alderwood Fire Department for the past five years. He moved to the community after working as a volunteer with another fire department as he went through paramedic training. By training as a paramedic, Harris said job opportunities with fire departments open up. With the Alderwood Fire Department, Harris has headed up the Christmas Adopt-a-Family project. This year 55 families were helped by the fire department. \"Bill is a competent medic,\" said Alderwood Fire Chief Jim Stanton. \"He strives hard to do the job right and get ahead.\" Also honored at the banquet was Tony Castillo, who received the Volunteer Firefighter of the Year award from his 35 volunteer peers. Castillo, 31, has been a volunteer with the local fire department for the past three years. \"I do what I can to help put up lights and take them down and put up flags,\" said \"Mr. Tony\" as he is known to the pre-schoolers he helps with at the United Methodist Pre-school. \"A lot of the guys do as much as I do. They are all deserving.\" This past year Castillo also served as secretary for the local organization. Castillo made the third highest number of responses to aid and fire calls for the Alderwood volunteer association. He was presented with a separate award for the number of calls he responded to. Volunteers are asked to work one day (24 hours) a month, said Castillo. \"I really enjoy it so I like to stay there a lot,\" he said. He tries to spend about 10 days a month volunteering at the fire department. He has had as many as 17 days in a month. \"The more days I spend there the more likely I will be able to go out on a call,\" he said Working at the pre-school, Castillo mixes his work with young children with his volunteer work at the fire department. He gives the pre-school students tours of the fire department and during the adopt a family program Castillo's students helped collect items for needy families. \"To be picked out of a group of really special guys is a pretty big deal,\" said Castillo. As a volunteer for the Alderwood Fire Department, Castillo is an emergency medical technician. \"If we go to an aid call I help in any way I can. It can be doing anything from CPR to bandaging wounds,\" said Castillo. He has also helped with extradition at accident scenes, which involves cutting up motor vehicles and strapping patients to backboards. Last year, Castillo helped with a call when a woman fell off a horse and hurt herself. The ambulance couldn't get to where the woman was, so aid call responders had to ride in a 4x4 pickup to get to the call. At the scene of a fire, as a volunteer, Castillo said he can be seen helping pull hoses and cleaning up, but last year he was able to drive the truck to the scene on two calls and be the engineer. \"As you get more experience the paid guys allow you to drive to the scene and be the engineer,\" he explained. Yakima County Fire District #5 Chief Mark Kimm also was honored at the banquet for his 18 years of service to the Alderwood Volunteer Fire Department. He retired from the volunteer association at the end of 2003. . Melissa Browning can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or e-mail mbrowning@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101163851779","Title":"Entertainment Briefs","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"1/16/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"1-Column Public reception scheduled for Northwest artists RICHLAND - A public reception is scheduled for Sunday, Feb. 8, at Richland's Allied Arts Gallery to honor three Pacific Northwest artists whose artwork will be on display throughout the month of February. The 1 to 3 p.m. reception will give art lovers the opportunity to meet artists Judith Loomis of Richland, Mary Dryburgh of Richland and Greg Wilbur of Portland, Ore. All three artists will have their work on display at the Richland gallery from Feb. 3 to Feb. 27. Loomis' mixed media works represent the nuclear age of Hanford, showing her feelings about Hanford from her artistic viewpoint. Dryburgh's artwork utilizes totemic images that come from the darkest recesses of consciousness. Her drawings are populated with running dogs and inky forests, as well as black crows. Wilbur, an internationally known artist from Portland, will present his metal works at the gallery. Allied Arts Gallery officials say Wilbur's elegant simplicity of his recent Asian-inspired sculptures brings a harmony to the February show to balance the mood of darkness implied in both the works of Loomis and Dryburgh. The Richland gallery is located at the entrance of Howard Amon Park in Richland (89 Lee Blvd.). Sweet Adelines' Laugh-in, Sing-out coming to Alderwood The Rolling Hill Chorus of Sweet Adelines will present \"Laugh-in, Sing-out\" Friday, Jan. 30, at the Alderwood High School auditorium at 7:30 p.m. The barbershop-style singers will be joined by the Peanut Butter Conspiracy, an internationally known comedy barbershop quartet. Tickets will be available at the door at the cost of 10 for adults, 8 for seniors and youths. Also available is a special 25 family ticket. Two more performances are planned at Richland's Chief Joseph's Middle School Saturday, Jan. 31, at 2:30 p.m. and 7:30 p.m. For more information call Jean Eakin at 882-3335 or (509) 943-ARTS (2787). Dinosaurs returnto science museum PORTLAND, ORE. - Was T. rex a scavenger? Or a murdering predator? Special guest Dr. Jack Horner, curator of paleontology at the Museum of the Rockies and technical advisor for Steven Spielberg's \"Jurassic Park\" films, will be at the Oregon Museum of Science & Industry on Tuesday, Jan. 27, to offer his conclusions on the scavenger vs. predator theory. The exciting, new exhibit, \" T. rex on Trial,\" features the suspect T. rex, a triceratops victim and seven other animatronic dinosaur \"witnesses.\" Full-size dino skeletons and rare fossils, along with hands-on activity stations, will help visitors analyze the data and reach a verdict. Tickets are priced at 10 for the general public (503-797-4661), and includes admittance to Horner's evening lecture on Jan. 27"}
{"Id":"1101163852029","Title":"Forum","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"1/16/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"1-Column Vote yes for local bond/levy issues It is our pleasure to endorse the Alderwood School District special levy/bond issues. We know that the passage of these issues will make a tremendous difference in the education of all of our students. We have seen the positive results of the previous special levy. The purchase of curriculum materials and supplies, safety officers and technology enhancements alone have been a wonderful assistance to our students and staff. We ask for your consideration and yes vote on the 2004 bond and special levy. Taxes will increase 20 ( 1.41 to 1.61 per 1,000 of home valuation). The district will receive 3,744,357 annually for four years. Also, 40 million in new construction and modernization projects will occur. Alderwood School District voters' approval of these issues will support students and building projects for years and years to come. We need your help! Please vote yes bond and levy Feb. 3. /s/ Barbara Quigley and Heidi Roedel, Outlook Vote yes Be sure to vote yes on the Alderwood School District levy and bond. By doing so we improve our district. With the yes on the levy we get matching state funds and this will help with classes and materials. The bond gives us more and better schools, as we are growing and need the space. A good working area creates a better atmosphere for our kids to learn in. Alderwood School District has not deceived us on funding before, and is now helping to make the district even better for only a few cents per thousand (of assessed valuation). As a past school director I have kept an eye on what happens in the district and feel very comfortable saying, \"Vote yes on the levy and bond. It really is the cheapest way to improve our district.\" /s/ Gene McIntire, Alderwood Beef rally I would like to take this opportunity to thank all the individuals who attended the rally in Mabton on Saturday, Jan. 10. The outpouring of support given to the cattle industry and the community during this difficult time was greatly appreciated. We would especially like to thank Clear Channel Broadcasting for its efforts in coordinating this community service event, which brought more than 2,600 visitors to our small community. With the cooperation of the school district, various law enforcement agencies, city staff and the overwhelming positive attitude of the participants, this was a very successful event. A special thank you to all our local, state and federal representatives and members of the Cattleman's Association who braved the weather to attend and support this rally. We also want to acknowledge the following participants: Van de Graaf family, Kallenberger family, Lommers family, Ray's Meats, Jerry's Valley Meats, Coca Cola Co. and M&M Catering for donating their time and products. /s/ Mabton Mayor David Conradt Blood drawing The Ladies Society of the Calvary Lutheran Church sponsored a very successful blood drawing on Tuesday, Jan. 6. Karon Kilian was the chairperson. The snow was falling all day and it was very cold. But that didn't stop the people from coming in to donate the much needed blood. We had 66 presenters and two first-time donors. Three were unable to give, leaving 63 units collected. Because of their generosity, 126 people will have another chance at life. Without you this drawing would not be possible. A special thanks to the sponsors for the delicious cookies and juice, the United Methodist Church for the use of its hall, Max of Washington Corrugators for putting out the signs and the Alderwood Daily News for the wonderful publicity. Many thanks to the following volunteers: Myrtis Lang, Ella Mae Lochner, Alice Benedetti, Phyllis Morris, Marilyn Vessey, Sharon Slaight, Chris Reihs and Maxine Means. Hope to see you at the next blood drawing on Tuesday, March 2, at the United Methodist Church, from 2 to 6 p.m. /s/ Marie Handy, Alderwood blood drawing chairman"}
{"Id":"1101163852388","Title":"Obituaries","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"1/16/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"PAID OBITUARY ZACHARY WALTER BRUCE ANDEREGG Zachary Walter Bruce Anderegg, 17, of Bickleton died Wednesday, Jan. 14, 2004. He was born June 25, 1986 in Portland, Ore. to Rick Bruce Anderegg and Verdene (McGuire) Anderegg. He received his early education in Tillamook, Ore., later moving with his family to Portland. He was currently a junior at Bickleton High School. He is survived by his mother, Verdene Anderegg of Portland; his father, Rick Anderegg and wife, Jerrilee, of Bickleton; one sister, Heather Anderegg of Eugene, Ore.; and his grandfather, Robert Anderegg of Troutdale, Ore. He was preceded in death by one sister, Amanda Mae. A memorial service will be held Sunday, Jan. 18, 2004, at 1 p.m. at the Native American Building, 710 S.W. Jackson, Portland, and Monday, Jan. 19, 2004, at 11 a.m. at the Bickleton High School gym. In lieu of flowers, memorials may be made to the Bickleton Hilltoppers (4-H Group), c/o Marie Miller, 50 East Rd., Bickleton, WA., 99322. Wells Funeral Home is in charge of arrangements. GEORGE HALMA George Halma, 73, long-time Alderwood dairy farmer passed away Wednesday, Jan. 14, 2004, at Yakima Providence Hospital. George Halma was born June 25, 1930 in The Netherlands, the son of Hattie (Dijkstra) and Martin Halma. George received his education in The Netherlands. At the age of 17 he with his family migrated to the United States, settling in Iowa in 1948. George served in the U.S. Army as a sergeant during the Korean Conflict. Following his honorable discharge from the military George married Hattie Van Grouw on April 2, 1953 in Inwood, Iowa. George and Hattie farmed in Minnesota for three years before moving to Alderwood in 1957. George worked for various farmers in the Valley before starting his own dairy in 1969. In 1988 his son, Marlin, took over the operation of the dairy. He enjoyed the daily coffee time with his many friends at the Outpost, solving all the world problems. George is survived by his wife of 50 years, Hattie Halma of Alderwood; five children, Carol Johnson and husband, Dave, of Harrah, Marlin Halma and wife, Shelly, Ardis Hollmeyer and husband, Kirk, Dr. Harlan Halma and wife, Patricia, all of Alderwood, and Kevin Halma and wife, Merri, of Nampa, Idaho; 13 grandchildren; three great-grandchildren; one brother, Henry Halma of Hudsonville, Mich.; three sisters, Eunice Jonkman of Jenison, Mich., Betty Diedering of Kentwood, Mich., and Ann Horstman of Sparta, Mich. He was preceded in death by his parents. Viewing and visitation will be held Friday, Jan. 16, 2004, from 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. at Wells Funeral Home, Alderwood. Funeral services will be Saturday, Jan. 17, 2004, at 10 a.m. at Wells Funeral Home, Alderwood. Burial will be at Lower Valley Memorial Gardens, under the direction of Wells Funeral Home, Alderwood. HILDA S. LADD Hilda S. Ladd, 89, of Alderwood went to be in the arms of her Savior Thursday, Jan. 15, 2004, at Alderwood Community Hospital. She was born Feb. 14, 1914 to William and Anna (Plowman) Santjer in Renville, Minn. She received her education in Minnesota, graduating with the class of 1932. In 1935 she married Elmer Ladd in Mahnomen, Minn. Following their marriage they moved to Seattle in 1942, where Hilda worked for Boeing. The Ladds later moved to San Jose, Calif., where she worked for Lockheed Aircraft. In 1956 they moved to Alderwood, where Hilda and Elmer owned a rabbit farm. Hilda also worked for Nor Tech in Richland until her retirement in 1973. Following her retirement Hilda moved back to Alderwood, where she made her home until the time of her death. She was a member of the Assembly of God Church in Alderwood. She enjoyed time spent with her friends and family. She loved helping people and sharing her talents with others. She is survived by her three brothers, William Santjer and wife, Della, of Enumclaw, Lester Santjer of Grandview and Albert Santjer and wife, Ramona, of Richland; and numerous nieces and nephews. She was preceded in death by her parents; husband, Elmer Ladd; one sister, Hattie Hoekstra; and one brother Arnold Santjer. Viewing and visitation will be held Monday, Jan. 19, 2004, from 3 to 6 p.m. at Wells Funeral Home, Alderwood. Funeral services will be held Tuesday, Jan. 20, 2004, at 1 p.m. at Wells Funeral Home, with burial to follow at Lower Valley Memorial Gardens, Alderwood"}
{"Id":"1101163852685","Title":"Effect of recent Arctic front seen in local crops","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"1/15/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"Freezing temperatures and a heavy dumping of snow are not new to the Yakima Valley. Yakima County Washington State University tree fruit extension agent Dana Faubion said similar occurrances have happened at other times in the past. Faubion said looking back at the history of the Valley, similar Arctic weather systems can be seen in 1919, 1955 and in 1968. Despite that fact that cold weather, like that experienced throughout the region last week, is something that has happened in the area before, local crops are still susceptible to damage. Faubion said at this point in the winter season he is most concerned with the effect the weather could have on soft fruit trees. He explained that there are several forms of damage these trees can be susceptible to when the temperature drops so dramatically. One way trees can be damaged is when water gets into the tree and freezes, which Faubion said will split the tree open. He said this type of damage results in the dramatic death of trees. Faubion said another form of damage growers have to watch for when temperatures drop and snow falls is called southwest injury. He explained that what happens is on a sunny day the sun will shine down on fallen snow and be reflected back up toward the tree. This warms the bark of the tree. Faubion said the bark can often get as hot as 60 degrees, however when the sun goes down the temperature of the bark is then plummeted back into the Arctic temperatures. Although both types of damage can happen when Arctic weather systems come through the region, Faubion said neither occurred in the Yakima Valley last week. Faubion said the main type of damage he has seen is a severe darkening of the cambium tissue on the trunk of many trees, and he said this is thought to have occurred during the freeze that took place in October 2003. He explained that cambium tissue is the tissue found directly under the bark of a tree. He said the same type of damage was found after the freeze that occurred on Halloween 2002, and no negative impact was found during the following 2003 growing season. The only other damage he has noticed in local orchards has been centered in the buds and the pencil wood of the trees. He explained that pencil wood is the part of the tree where the crop is located, or the branches of the tree. He said if local orchardists would like to check their trees for this type of damage all they have to do is take a sharp knife and dissect the bud. Faubion said if there is any brown tissue inside the bud is dead. The reason it's important to go out and test trees is that depending on how trees fared the cold weather, farmers will have to plan their pruning and heating regimens accordingly, Faubion said. He explained that before farmers prune it's important to figure out what is on the tree. He said if there is a smaller number of healthy buds on the tree it will also affect how farmers plan to heat up and protect the trees from spring frosts. \"Every year we can lose a lot of blooms to frost, but we like to lose those in March,\" Faubion said. . Ellie Olmsen can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or e-mail her at eOlmsen@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101163852951","Title":"Gov. Locke treks to Lower Valley to allay mad cow disease concerns","Author":"Jamie Smart","Time":"1/15/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"MABTON - Stressing the need to support of the state's livestock industry during the current mad cow crisis, Governor Gary Locke was in Mabton yesterday (Thursday) urge the public to continue to \"eat beef.\" Locke read a proclamation declaring Jan. 17-24 as \"Washington Beef and Dairy Week\" and asked everyone to continue to enjoy Washington beef, milk and dairy products. \"I urge everyone to continue to support our state farmers and ranchers now and throughout the year,\" he said. He said there is a need to develop a national identification program for all cattle, as well as funding the development of faster BSE (bovine spongiform encephalopathy) testing methods. Locke asked for the input from the group of more than 100 livestock producers and distributors who gathered for his town hall meeting held at the Wanita Grange Hall, located several miles north of Mabton. Listening to the beef and dairy growers' concerns, Locke said he will work to aid the state livestock industry as it works to regroup following the United States Department of Agriculture's announcement that the nation's first case of BSE had been discovered in a Mabton dairy cow. He asked for the help of industry leaders in developing strategies to retain the public confidence in the safety of beef. Locke's visit to Mabton was seen as a show of support for the area, which came under the national and international spotlight on Dec. 23. \"The governor's proclamation comes at a very important time for Washington's beef and dairy industry,\" said Sen. Jim Honeyford of Alderwood. \"We need to continue to support our ranchers and farmers,\" said Honeyford, who accompanied Locke on his visit to Mabton. He said since the case of BSE was found in Mabton last month, government officials have taken the proper steps to ensure that the nation's beef supply is safe. \"People need to be aware of that. I join the governor in urging citizens in our state to continue enjoying beef, milk and dairy products,\" the senator said. Granger dairyman LaDon Linde said he appreciated the Governor's support of the livestock industry. \"We thank you for the proclamation,\" said Linde, who is the vice president of the Washington State Dairy Federation. \"We have confidence in the painstaking steps the USDA is taking in the BSE investigation,\" he added. \"And, we appreciate the steps being taken to assure we remain pro-active.\" Noting that the USDA has been testing for BSE for 14 years. Linde said that of the 100,000 animals tested only two cows have been found to be infected with the disease. \"We have to maintain a sense of perspective in this situation,\" he added. Steve Erickson of Alderwood and president of the state Cattlefeeders Association, asked the governor to do what he can to remove the bans on the export of cattle which were issued immediately following the BSE discoveries. \"We're selling cattle every day,\" Erickson told the Governor. \"But the price of beef is steadily falling and we need to get those markets reopened,\" he said. Erickson said his association is in favor of the national identification system. \"We also need to speed up the testing for the disease,\" Erickson added. Locke said meetings with the Japanese and Mexican trade unions have already been held, toward the reopening of the overseas markets. \"But it will take some time,\" he noted. Locke thanked the livestock industry groups and local communities affected by this incident for their \"...patience, understanding and cooperation with this federal investigation.\" Locke held his town hall meeting at the grange hall following a tour of Ray's Meats in Yakima, where he not only observed how beef is processed but purchased meat for his family's use. Locke, accompanied by Valoria Loveland, director of the state's Department of Agriculture, and Yakima Valley legislators made the purchase to reinforce the message that beef is safe. \"It's important that we all do what we can to support and promote our beef industry and the safety of our beef,\" he said. \"We will continue to cooperate with the federal government and are directing all available resources to assist the USDA in completing its investigation,\" he added. \"Only two cows were found to be infected with BSE, and our food supplies were not threatened,\" he said. \"It's important to remember that beef remains safe to eat,\" he said. He praised the Yakima Valley cattlemen and dairymen, as well as the surrounding communities affected by the aftershock of the mad cow announcement and investigation. Noting that the past several weeks have been a challenging time for the growers and distributors, he also thanked the staffs of the USDA and the state Department of Agriculture for their continued support and efforts. . Jamie Smart can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or you can e-mail her at jSmart@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101163853185","Title":"City Council enters into agreement for animal control services","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"1/15/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"At this past Monday night's meeting, the Alderwood City Council entered into an agreement with the Humane Society of Central Washington to provide animal control services in 2004. \"We have enjoyed the positive relationship with the City of Alderwood and hope to continue that relationship in the future,\" Humane Society of Central Washington Executive Director Alan Landvoy wrote in a report presented to Council. The Humane Society asked for a 3 percent increase over last year's fee for services in 2004. The amount the Humane Society asked Council to approve, which it did, in 2004 was 1,815 per month, or 21,786 per year. In 2003, the Humane Society shelter housed more than 11,000 animals, 504 of which came from within the Alderwood city limits. Dogs accounted for the largest number of animals housed at the Humane Society. In 2003, the Humane Society catered to 290 dogs from the Alderwood area, 132 of which were euthenized. Alderwood area cats were also a frequent visitor to the Humane Shelter. There were 178 cats from the Alderwood area taken to the Yakima shelter in 2003, 125 of which were euthenized. Of the 504 Alderwood area animals taken to the Humane Society shelter, 259 of them were killed. The shelter did manage to find homes for 108 of the animals, 98 of which were dogs. Under the terms of the agreement, the Humane Society agrees to provide at least 20 hours of service within the Alderwood city limits. The Humane Society also agrees to pick up all injured or dead animals as part of the contract. The city will be pay 6 per day for any dogs housed at the Humane Society that are needed in criminal investigation cases. In the event of extra patrol needed, the city will pay the Humane Society 25 per hour. The contract also states the city will keep all of the money from fines"}
{"Id":"1101163853419","Title":"Grizzlies clip Falcons for first Mid-Valley win","Author":"John Panni","Time":"1/14/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"WEST RICHLAND - After starting the Mid-Valley League season an uncharacteristic 0-2, the Alderwood High School wrestling team got back on the winning track with a convincing 46-20 victory over Hanford. \"We wrestled well last night,\" said Alderwood Coach George Paulus. \"We wrestled with a bit of emotion last night, which we have been trying to do (all season).\" It didn't look promising at the beginning for the Grizzlies. Michael Christensen made some mistakes late in his match at 119 lbs. with Hanford's Ken Pulsiphe and was pinned in 5:37. Paulus said he felt this was a match Christensen could have won, but got caught off guard late in the bout. Greg Burbidge won by injury default in the first round of his match at 125 lbs. for the Grizzlies. Eric Martinez had a convincing win for Alderwood at 130 lbs., taking a 7-2 decision over Hanford's Aaron Edmonds. At 135 lbs., Omar Magana pinned Hanford's Taylor Gropper in 5:50. Rudy Martinez picked up a first round win in his 140 lb. match over Hanford's Dillon Roueche. The time of Martinez's pin was not available. Ray Romero had an easy night for the Grizzlies at 145 lbs., pinning Hanford's Kellan Cox in 1:16. Daniel Mendoza lost a 9-2 decision at 152 lbs. to one of Hanford's big guns, Clay Underwood. Paulus said Mendoza made some mistakes late in the match that accounted for the final deficit. At 160 lbs., Alderwood's Reece Paulus met up with another of the Falcons' top dogs in Jared Stoker. Paulus wrestled well, despite losing a 9-5 decision. The coach said his son was only behind 6-5 going into the final round. Joe Evans made a couple of impressive statements in his 171 lb. match with Evin Dodson of Hanford. Evans won his match by pin in 1:55, but recorded six takedowns in the first round. The six takedowns Evans scored boosted his season total to 82. His effort last night set a new Grizzly wrestling takedown record. Evans surpassed the record of 80 set by Charles Espinoza in the 2000 season. At 189 lbs., Carlos Padilla-Garza lost a 10-0 decision to another of Hanford's top wrestler's, Cody Bradshaw. Gabe Lara manhandled Hanford's Logan Romhe at 215 lbs., winning a 10-2 decision. Pete Garza got back on track for the Grizzlies at heavyweight with an impressive 10-6 victory over Cody Myers, another one of the Falcons' notable wrestlers. Jesus Alquicira won by forfeit at 103 lbs. for Alderwood. Alex Valencia ended the night for the Grizzlies at 112 lbs. with a 15-7 loss to Hanford's Brandon Edwin. Alderwood will be at home this Thursday against Wapato. . John Panni can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or email him at mPanni@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101163853654","Title":"Camels call Alderwood home","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"1/14/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"Driving down Tear Road southeast of Alderwood there are fields upon fields, pastures where horses and cows graze in the winter haze. But, just before the road bends back to the south and turns into North Forsell, there is a pasture that contains the unexpected - two dromedary camels. The large single-humped animals are owned by the parents of Lynn Henry, who now cares for the camels. The collection of animals was started in the mid-90s when Henry and her now ex-husband made a trip to Australia. Henry said during their stay down under they came across a corral of camels and it was at that moment she knew she wanted to have a camel of her own. \"I said I wanted a camel and he [her ex-husband] didn't say no,\" Henry said. Upon her arrival back in the United States Henry immediately began searching out information on camels, researching everything from how to care for the animals to where to find them. Ultimately, Henry said caring for camels isn't much different than caring for any other grazing animal. Henry received her first camel in 1995, a pack camel, which eventually would become one of four camels in her collection. However, over the years two of the camels have been sold, leaving only two animals left for Henry to care for. The two camels, Merlin and Guinevere, were purchased a year apart from each other. Merlin, who will be 10 years old Jan. 4, was purchased out of San Diego, while Guinevere, who is 8 years old, came from Spokane. According to Henry, camels traditionally live long lives, with many of the animals living 40 to 60 years. Henry said camels are a relatively easy animal to take care of, and not too expensive to keep. She explained that camels eat a larger variety of food than most goats do, including pasture grass and just about anything else. Henry said the animals seem to really enjoy hot, spicy foods like habanero peppers. She said the most expensive part of keeping camels is purchasing them. According to Henry, in the northern part of the United States camels, no matter what their age, are often sold for anywhere from 5,000 to 6,000, with the price increasing depending on how friendly the camel is. Henry said breaking the camels when she first received them was a lesson in patience. She said camels don't buck like horses, instead they meander along and try to brush the person off its back. Henry said all she had to do was work to stay on the animal. Spitting was another habit the camels had to be broken of. Henry said it didn't take too long for Merlin to stop spitting after she started making him smell his own spit. Henry, who suffers from several health problems, said all she does with the camels now is walk them when she can. She explained that the animals are smart enough to know she isn't in good enough health to be able to make them do what she wants them to, which is one of the reasons Henry's parents are still trying to sell the animals. The two camels haven't always been housed on Tear Road. It wasn't until this summer that the animals made their way from a pasture on King Tull Road in Prosser to their new Alderwood home. Henry said when it came time to move the animals she couldn't find a trailer that was large enough to transport the camels. Instead, the animals made the 12-1/2 mile trek walking along the edges of fields and finally along the walking path that runs along Wine Country Road. Henry said the trek took about four or five hours, and once the caravan of camels made their way onto the footpath they caused quite a commotion. Henry said cars were pulling over along the highway with people running across the road to pet the large animals. Henry said she enjoys caring for the animals and has found that they are intelligent enough to often times understand what is being said to them. She said they also remember things that are told to them. For example, if she promises to give one of the camels a treat for doing something, the animal will remember and will hold a grudge if she doesn't give them their treat, she said. \"They are really very smart,\" Henry said. . Ellie Olmsen can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or e-mail her at eOlmsen@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101163868294","Title":"Police captain regales Kiwanians with accounts from FBI academy training","Author":"Melissa Browning","Time":"1/14/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"Alderwood Police Captain Bill Bank falls into an elite group law enforcement officers in Yakima County, all of whom have attended the FBI leadership academy in Quantico, Va. It is one of the best leadership training opportunities in the world for law enforcement officers, said Bank. He shared with members of the Alderwood Kiwanis Club about his 12-week training at the prestigious National FBI Academy, which he returned from Dec. 5. About three years ago, Alderwood Police Chief Ted Mana nominated Bank for the academy. \"Normally, there is a seven to 10-year waiting list,\" said Bank. Each state is allowed three students at each of the four sessions held at Quantico annually. The session Bank attended had four Washington state law enforcement officers attending. With classes filled with 240 police chiefs, captains and lieutenants from around the world, Bank said he had the opportunity to learn about other ways law enforcement is conducted. A friend from Colombia shared with him that police work in his South American country consists of strapping on a backpack and a machine and being dropped off in the jungle for a week to bust drug manufacturers. Bank also made friends from Gambia, Nepal, Colombia and England. There were participants from 48 states and 21 countries. Bank said he was fortunate in that he had a year to prepare for the academy. He lost 15 pounds in preparing for the physical fitness aspect of the academy. \"It was like boot camp,\" said Bank. Every week there was a challenge run the students would participate in. The run started at about one and a half miles and each week half a mile to a mile was added. At the end of the 12-week session, Bank went on the \"Yellow Brick Road,\" a Marine obstacle course that is about five miles long. Before going through the obstacle course he had to run three miles down to it. His reward for completing the course is a painted yellow brick, which now sits in his office at the Alderwood Law and Justice Center. Besides the physical aspect of the academy, Bank said there was an academic component. He received extra college and graduate credits through the University of Virginia in managing organizational change, public speaking, extremist groups and labor law. \"I actually doubled up on the communication courses,\" he said. He also applied to be a part of the \"leadership challenge.\" He was one of 16 chosen to participate in the leadership group for his class of 240 at the academy. Bank said he hopes to use his new skills to help the police chief in making the department better. \"This was really good leadership training,\" he said. Bank is only the second officer from Alderwood to attend the academy. Retired police officer Mike Alvord also attended the academy. Grandview and Wapato's police chiefs have also attended the academy, as well as a handful of Yakima officers. . Melissa Browning can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or e-mail mbrowning@hawkpress.com Melissa Browning/Alderwood Daily News"}
{"Id":"1101163868560","Title":"Open Mike","Author":"John Panni","Time":"1/14/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"What is the purpose of a newspaper? That has been the question asked from some people in the community lately. I have to admit to myself that I sometimes wonder what the purpose of a newspaper might be. Is a newspaper an advertising machine meant to generate money? Or is a newspaper a conveyor of history? Sometimes the two get more than mixed up. Is a newspaper something meant for people 100 years from now to look back on to see what our squabbles, momentous events and life-altering situations were? Is a newspaper meant to inform people about the every day happenings? Or is a newspaper, as some seem to think, a venue to express their opinions and not have to worry about hearing the other side? I believe, just me personally, that a newspaper is supposed to be the conveyor of history. A newspaper is the medium used to show what happened at a meeting, a certain event or who was student of the month or who holds the high school football record for most touchdowns thrown in a game. I have my thoughts on how a newspaper should be ran. What stories should appear and the tact that should be taken in writing them. I write to tell a story. My stories are sometimes short and can sometimes can take up a page. Luckily, I have had bosses, for the most part, who understand my madness. But I write with the philosophy that you convey every bit of what happened at an important meeting or an event. I write my lengthy stories to tell exactly what happened, so people understand and get all sides. I write to convey the history of the meeting or story that needs to be told. I disagree with the way journalism is emphasized. Keep it short they say. I am going to go back to college to become a journalism teacher and teach the way I believe journalism should be. People want to know. Information is a valuable tool, one that the journalism industry often overlooks. One of the reasons I got into this business is because I would always read stories in newspapers and was left with all these questions because the article didn't answer them. Sometimes I lose my faith in the journalism business. I think I would rather be managing a movie theater. Journalism is not about baby-sitting people at meetings and making sure they conveyed something correctly. It is their job to be right and specific. Journalism is not about taking sides or hiding facts because a situation might be revealed that doesn't shine a good light on a person or an industry. A newspaper is there to convey what exactly happens, not put a spin on it. This philosophy should hold true for large towns or small communities. Let me side track for a minute. There has been some confusion among certain people as to what the purpose of an opinion page is for in a newspaper. An opinion page is to generate thought, discussion, hear people's opinions or suggestions, regardless if it is from newspaper staff members or the community. An opinion page is designed to hear from everyone. Some people have recently suggested that this newspaper staff should only offer constructive criticism on matters, instead of being so harsh. That is a point to be taken and if any of us have an opinion along those lines we will be sure to write about it. The opinions of the reporting staff at the Alderwood Daily News vary. And to the credit of our bosses, Editor Bob Story and Publisher Tim Graff, they let us express our opinions. They don't always agree with us and we hear about it, but for the most part they let us stand on our own two feet to be judged by the community for our opinions. Again, I ask for your patience while I get to my point. We don't always agree with one another here at the newspaper. Believe me, there are plenty of times I have gone around with the editor and sometimes the publisher on a subject that I have disagreed with them about. Does that mean they are wrong for their opinions or me for mine? Does that mean we don't like one another? No, it just means we disagree and each of us respects the differing opinions. There was recent discussion throughout the city about a Dec. 31, 2003 article written about Councilwoman Jennie Angel's involvement with possibly forming an Hispanic chamber of commerce in Alderwood. I bring this up because it is one of the reasons for my column. I will be the first to tell you, I don't agree with some of the things Angel is doing, and she knows that and so do several others. But she had the right to present her case after being what I will refer to as torn down at an earlier Council meeting on the very subject. The meeting at which the Council voiced its objections to Angel's efforts was publicized on the front page in the newspaper. Angel was allowed to present her side of the issue in a later edition, also on the front page. Contrary to what some might think, it is not the purpose of a newspaper to be friends to everyone. It is the purpose of a newspaper to print the good, the bad and the ugly. But like you, we prefer to hear about the good. Who doesn't like hearing about who was student of the month or what program is going on within the city or who helped the little old lady across the street. Sometimes the good news comes with the ugly news and it is our job to report this. The newspaper business is not about sugar-coating stories. It would be wrong of any community member to ask this newspaper, in my opinion, or any other newspaper to not report the facts. The newspaper business is all about presenting the facts-not just what suits some people. Some people may not understand that or like it, but they need to respect it and appreciate it. . John Panni can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or email him at mPanni@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101163868841","Title":"Forum","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"1/14/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"1-Column Do your homework, then vote yes Feb. 3 As an employee of the Alderwood School District for 30 years I always felt that a part of my job responsibility was to diligently support any and all levy or bond requests set forth by the board of directors. Now that I have no affiliation with the Alderwood School system, and have not had for the past 10 years, I find myself being much more objective, probably more critical and certainly more conservative in regards to where my tax dollar goes. With a certain cynicism in my back pocket I attended one of the early organizational/informational meetings held by the YES Committee. After listening to their financial presentation and reasoning for their bond/levy request I no longer have the reservations I initially had. No one likes to spend money and certainly property tax is a paramount concern, but what our elected officials are proposing is something our community needs and something that makes sense financially for us who pay the bills. Sometime this week an informational letter will be coming out to district patrons. I urge you to read it carefully. It will show that we certainly have a need with approximately 100 new students enrolling yearly, and as space becomes more of a priority we have to expand facilities. What is of paramount concern to me is that everything that the board of directors is asking for can be accomplished at a very minimal cost to us (the tax paying community). I know that many are asking, just as I did, how can our district accomplish everything that they are proposing with only a 20 per thousand tax increase ( 1.41 will increase to 1.61). Please do as I did. Attend an informational meeting, call any member of the YES Committee or the district office itself. Be critical, be cynical, ask hard questions. I believe you will come away with the same feeling that I now have concerning this latest request. Our board of directors continues to provide the leadership that gives the patrons of this community the best return for our educational dollar. I am in full support of this bond/levy proposal. I firmly believe that once you have all of the information and have done your homework you too will vote YES on Feb. 3. /s/ Bill Gant, Executive Secretary, Yakima Valley Interscholastic Activities Assoc. and retired principal, Alderwood High School Levy support As a community there are not many things more important than the support of our schools. This is not blind support because the ability to leverage dollars has never been better than through this levy. Education being the great equalizer, and in these United States, the opportunity to dream and through education to achieve those dreams requires support from us all. This levy is a responsible use of dollars and makes cent . Vote YES, YES! /s/ John Torch, Alderwood High five This past month here in Alderwood, we citizens have heard, seen and experienced some of the good, bad and ugly. We have gone through the trials and tribulations of holidays, economic times, terror alerts, war and the weather. I would like to give a high five, pat on the back, three cheers to some very often overlooked in our town to all those everyday heroes who kept on doing their best, for not only themselves and their families but who also without being asked, paid or told to, helped their neighbors, strangers and even wildlife in countless ways. I observed people who gave blood, delivered meals, kept sidewalks cleared, dug neighbors' driveways out, cleared parking lots, helped encourage shut-ins with phone calls or visits, and put food out for birds, stray cats and dogs and yes, even the squirrels. In so many ways that made a difference, you all showed that we are all connected, we are all family and we are all caring human beings. You know who you are and what you have done and what you have always done and will continue to do for your fellow man, woman and child. I saw plowed streets, running water from taps, toilets that worked, fires put out, accidents and aid calls responded to, bad guys caught, businesses kept running, papers delivered, plans being made for future projects, bills being paid, mail deliveries, etc. Life doesn't stop in our town. It may slow down, take a short break, even a detour now and then, but we will always keep on putting one foot in front of the other, always remembering to watch our steps so that we don't walk on someone else. /s/ Carol Stone, Alderwood"}
{"Id":"1101163869076","Title":"Mabton's Silver Dollar evolving into a family entertainment center","Author":"Melissa Browning","Time":"1/13/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"MABTON - Since the days of silent movies the building housing the Silver Dollar Tavern in Mabton has been a place for entertaining Mabton residents. Under the false floor of the former movie theater there is still an orchestra pit where musicians would sit and play the music along with the silent films. The tradition of entertainment continues on at the old theater. Since the 1940s Silver Dollar Tavern has been a familiar name in Mabton, but as times change so does the focus of the community bar. No longer is it just a place for a solitary drink and a game of cards, but rather the doors have opened to all ages. It is a place where families can meet for dinner and a place youths can visit after school for a game of pool. It has become a community hallmark in a sparse downtown. A place where city employees can get a quick lunch and a place to hold large gatherings for young people in the area. Slowly over the past few months the Silver Dollar Tavern, a long-standing favorite Mabton watering hole, has undergone change. Small changes, such as tables being moved and walls being painted, have grown into bigger changes. One being a name change to Silver Dollar Inn. Managers \"Little\" Mike and Linda Chester have worked hard to help grow the clientele of the small community bar and to create an atmosphere of more than just a bar. They continuously work to create an atmosphere to cater to all people. Chester said that along with the new high-tech security system installed at Silver Dollar, they are also putting in an Internet cafe, where people with laptop computers can gain Internet access. One of the biggest steps has been changing the establishment's liquor license. Just yesterday (Monday), the state liquor board approved changing its liquor license to a spirit and wine license, which allows them to have a family restaurant. \"We can now focus on providing our area with a sit down family restaurant,\" said Linda Chester. \"We have a real menu, not just a greasy spoon menu.\" Chester added that instead of only being able to serve beer and wine, they will now be licensed to serve mixed drinks and cocktails. \"We have a whole drink menu,\" she said. Going around to several lounges and nightclubs in the area to see how the businesses set up their liquor, Chester expected to be treated as competition, but they were instead greeted as family. \"We have gotten nothing but wonderful support from them,\" said Chester. \"It's almost like they've welcomed us into their circle.\" She said seeing all of the choices, they have decided to stick with old-fashion pouring in their lounge. Chester's husband is currently in the process of building a liquor cabinet where one of the beer coolers once stood. The change in the liquor license also allows the couple to hold special non-alcoholic youth events similar to the teen rap battle held this past Halloween. From 3 to 8 p.m., at management's discretion, the game room will be open to youths, said Chester, which is something that they weren't able to do with the other liquor license. On New Year's Eve, the Silver Dollar was filled with Mabtonites wanting to ring in the new year. Every week, the establishment has poker games and Chester hopes that a dominos club will start. \"We're hoping to get back cribbage, because they used to meet here,\" she said. With many plans being made, and little time to accomplish everything, the physical changes to the business have only scratched the surface. There is more paint to brush on the walls and ceiling, new countertops are on their way and a new floor is ready to be laid before the couple celebrates their grand opening in February. By then the couple will be ready for the two-person play, \"Love Letters,\" to be performed on the stage in the back ballroom named for the late Pam Chester, the \"Queen of Silver Dollar.\" The Chester's rent out the back room for parties with room for 100 to 125 people. She said there are also opportunities to rent the front restaurant portion of business or the whole establishment for a night. In April, 2-4-7, a Portland, Ore. band that plays lounges all along the Oregon Coast, will be performing at the Silver Dollar Inn. Red Dragon, a rock and roll oldies cover band from Selah, will also be performing on stage soon, said Chester. \"This is a part of Mabton,\" said Chester of the Silver Dollar Inn. \"We have second and third generation customers, but this is more than just a bar, it's a place to come for entertainment.\" . Melissa Browning can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or e-mail mbrowning@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101163869310","Title":"Display of 4,000 flags a reminder of the abortions that occur every day","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"1/13/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"GRANDVIEW - Saturday, Jan. 3, after the first of what would ultimately be days of snowfall, Lower Valley Pregnancy Center Executive Director Shelley VanBuskirk and approximately 20 other volunteers, ranging from middle school students to other Lower Valley Pregnancy Center staff members, spent the afternoon planting flags in the ground at Blessed Sacrament Catholic Church in Grandview. The 4,000 pink and blue flags make up the Pregnancy Center's National Sanctity of Human Life Day display. VanBuskirk explained that President George W. Bush proclaimed Jan. 18, 2004 to be National Sanctity of Human Life Day, and that the small flags that make up the local display represent the average number of children aborted each day in the United States. VanBuskirk said this is the second year the Lower Valley Pregnancy Center has participated in the national event, which started in 1983 under the Reagan administration. She explained that the original idea behind the event was to give people a visual reminder of the value of human life. VanBuskirk said she feels National Sanctity of Human Life Day is an important event to take part in because it gives people a reason to think about the value of human life. She pointed to the United State's constitution and noted that it provides for the protection of life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness. She said there are many people out there who seem to challenge the idea that every life is precious. VanBuskirk said there are some people who think that the life of an unborn child or an elderly or infirmed person isn't as valuable as that of a productive person. \"All expressions of life are extremely valuable,\" VanBuskirk said. And it's that idea that lays the foundation for National Sanctity of Human Life Day. VanBuskirk said the 4,000-flag display is a way to make people stop, think and examine their feelings on the sanctity of human life. \"That's the whole point of this Sanctity of Human Life [event],\" VanBuskirk said. The flags will be on display at the Blessed Sacrament Catholic Church at the corner of Fifth Street and Velma Avenue in Grandview through Jan. 25. This year a new component has also been added to the display. VanBuskirk said those who are interested can sponsor a flag this year. The cost to sponsor a flag is 5, and VanBuskirk said the money will go to support the Lower Valley Pregnancy Center. For more information on flag sponsorship contact the Lower Valley Pregnancy Center at 882-1899 or email the center at lvpc@bentonrea.com. . Ellie Olmsen can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or e-mail her at eOlmsen@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101163869544","Title":"Grizzly JV moves to 7-0 on the season","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"1/13/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"The Alderwood High School junior varsity boys basketball team truly made it a team effort this past Saturday at home against Ellensburg. The Grizzlies built a 25-16 first quarter lead and never looked back in their 79-69 win over the Bulldogs to move to 7-0 on the season. Alderwood's JV will host Selah tonight (Tuesday). \"There are some guys who did some pretty good things,\" said Alderwood JV Coach Glenn Braman. After trailing at the end of the first quarter, the Bulldogs matched Alderwood's 20-point effort in the second quarter to trail 45-36 at the end of the first half. The Grizzlies outscored Ellensburg 14-11 in the third quarter. The Bulldogs took the final frame from Alderwood, winning the period 22-20. Alderwood had four players in double digits. Derrick Simmons and Luke Schilperoort led the Grizzlies in scoring with 13 points apiece. Greg Gilleland dropped in 11 and David Pacheco had 10 points. Danny Plesha also scored 9 points for the Grizzlies. Gilleland was a solid 5-for-5 from the free throw line. Pete Marquez led the Grizzlies on the glass, nabbing five rebounds. Pacheco had six assists for the Grizzlies while Simmons and Gilleland had four dishes apiece. Teammate Eric Crimp finished with two blocks. Alderwood took good care of the ball in Saturday's game, said Braman, committing only 10 turnovers. Braman said he was very impressed with the way his team played together against Ellensburg. Lady Knights JV topples Riverside YAKIMA - The Alderwood Christian High School junior varsity girls basketball team had a bit more success than its varsity counterparts Saturday at Riverside Christian. The Lady Knights pounded the Lady Crusaders JV squad, winning 56-23. Alderwood Christian opened the game with a 17-5 run and led 26-11 at the break. At the end of the third quarter, the Lady Knights were up 40-18. \"We started off like gang busters and never looked back,\" said Alderwood Christian JV Coach Steve Martin. Martin said his Lady Knights had numerous transition baskets in the game. Tori Van Wingerden led the Lady Knights in scoring with 19 points. Abby Berkompas had 12 and Jacquie Roberts finished with 10 points. Chelsey Wells ended up with 9 points for the Lady Knights. Alderwood Christian (8-2) will play LaSalle's JV in Yakima this Saturday"}
{"Id":"1101163869810","Title":"Wal-Mart distribution center to open March 1","Author":"John Panni","Time":"1/13/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"The Wal-Mart distribution center in Grandview will soon be opening its doors. Rick Gray, manager of the new distribution center, which is the length of 15 football fields, was on hand at Monday's Alderwood Noon Rotary meeting and said the center will see the first delivery of goods on March 1. Gray provided Noon Rotarians with some history about himself and the background of Wal-Mart distribution centers. Gray also touched on some highlights of the new Grandview site. Gray relocated to the Lower Valley from Florida to manage the area's newest economic attraction. Gray and his wife, Anna, have one son, Zach. Gray has worked for Wal-Mart for 19 years. There are 160 Wal-Mart distribution centers throughout the country, said Gray. There are plans in the immediate future to build 14 more distribution centers, six of which will be only grocery facilities. The Wal-Mart distribution center in Grandview is what is referred to as a conventional building, where everything is housed on ground level. Wal-Mart has a couple of revolutionary mechanical buildings, which go as high as 100 feet in the air, said Gray. Almost all of the items in the mechanical buildings are moved around by crane. One mechanical building is currently in operation in Texas and another is set to open in Alabama around the same time the Grandview site opens in March. Gray said more mechanical buildings are on the horizon for Wal-Mart because of their increase in productivity. Gray said the Grandview site will begin receiving goods on March 1 and start distributing items later in the spring. Once fully operational, the Grandview distribution center will have the capability of moving a half-million cases of products each day. Gray said at full capacity there will be 400 trucks going in and out of the Grandview site on a daily basis. The Grandview distribution center will provide food goods to 42 super centers in the Washington, Oregon and Idaho territory. A super center is the type of store located in Alderwood. Gray said Wal-Mart has plans to build 250 super centers with 50 of those stores being in the coverage area of the Grandview distribution center. The jobs created by the construction of the Wal-Mart distribution center will be numerous, related Gray to Rotarians. The Grandview site will initially employ 450 full-time employees, with that figure set to expand to 650 within the next two years. To help oversee the distribution center in Grandview, Wal-Mart executives brought in 30 managers from across the country to the Lower Valley. \"We are very excited to be here,\" said Gray. . John Panni can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or email him at mPanni@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101163870045","Title":"City Council withdraws support of outreach program","Author":"John Panni","Time":"1/13/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"Councilwoman Jennie Angel wanted to know where the Alderwood City Council stood on its support of the Lower Alderwood Valley Rural Enterprise Community (REC) Outreach Program. Well, she got her answer at this past Monday night's Council meeting. In a 3-2 vote, with Councilman John Torch not casting his vote on the matter, the City Council opted to withdraw its support of the community outreach program. Councilman Alex de la Cruz joined Angel in voting to continue city support of the program. Mayor Rex Luthor, Mayor Pro-tem George Greenway and Councilman James Sarducci voted in favor of withdrawing the city's support. Councilman Tom Seeger was not in attendance at Monday night's meeting, having received an excused absence the week prior. Angel, who also sits on the REC board of directors, has headed up the community outreach effort for the non-profit agency. She also was instrumental in forming the partnership with the REC, City of Alderwood, and the Alderwood School District in joining together to hold the meetings. Angel brought the issue before the Council last night following recent discussions the governing body has had in trying to obtain all remaining money from the REC to help fund maintenance of SunnyView Park. de la Cruz admitted he wasn't familiar with the outreach program, but wondered what the city's financial stake was. Interim City Manager Bruce Rinz said the city's financial contribution for participating in the program is minimal, consisting mainly of compensatory time and in some Sings overtime pay. City staff members, including police officers and firemen, have been in attendance frequently at the community outreach meetings. Rinz clarified a concern of de la Cruz, saying if the Council opted to not continue its support of the outreach program, then none of the city employees would be compensated for their involvement with the meetings. Greenway praised Angel for her efforts, but wondered if the money couldn't be spent for more useful programs. Greenway said the meetings he attended had very few people in attendance. He also talked to two families, who had attended past outreach meetings, and they told him they wouldn't attend again \"because it was a waste of time.\" Greenway asked Angel what the 15,000 allocated for the outreach programs was used for and if the city could be compensated for its financial expenditures. \"I think the concept is excellent. I really do,\" said Greenway. \"I am concerned about (how) the money is being spent.\" Angel said the money is used for postage, supplies and other needed items in getting the word out about the meetings. Angel also said she can ask if the city could be financially compensated, but said it was her initial understanding the city's contributions were in-kind. Angel said the outreach program has tried to gear its presentations around what was identified in a community survey as major concerns. \"The program is kind of evolving,\" said Angel. Angel defended the reason for community members not attending meetings. Angel said some meetings were held at the wrong times throughout the year. She added not all meetings were sparsely attended. In May 2003, 40 people attended a meeting in the downtown area, which she said greatly benefited the Alderwood Housing Up! rehabilitation program. Angel said the meetings have been averaging between 20 to 25 people. \"It depends on the area and the time of the meeting,\" said Angel. In response to a question from Alderwood citizen M'Liss Bierlink, Angel said the door-to-door efforts to inform people about the meetings reaches between 300 to 400 homes. Bierlink said it was unfortunate that only 20 to 25 people on average were attending the meetings. Luthor said he felt the outreach program was going into too many different directions, instead of focusing on a few concerns. Luthor also felt the REC would do better to give the outreach dollars to the police department to help the agency expand its community outreach programs. The mayor also expressed concern about the sustainability of the REC outreach program. Dr. Jim Stevens of Alderwood heralded the efforts of Angel with the outreach program, but said he felt the remaining REC money should be used for other programs. Stevens suggested using the REC money to fund the efforts of Danny Mendoza to build a skate park at SunnyView Park. Stevens said he felt the skate park could help unite the communities of Alderwood and Grandview. Councilman Sarducci was equally impressed with the purpose of the outreach program, but said he felt the meetings, some of which he had attended, weren't very well organized. Sarducci expressed concerns about the financial management of the REC program. Sarducci said he has tried to get in contact with Yakima County grants manager Steve Hill over the last two weeks to obtain information on the program and hasn't heard anything back yet. \"I am just worried about who is running the show right now,\" said Sarducci. . John Panni can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or email him at mPanni@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101163870279","Title":"Alderwood boys square league mark at 1-1","Author":"Bob Story","Time":"1/12/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"Snapping a six-game losing streak this past Saturday, the Alderwood High School boys basketball team evened its Mid-Valley League record at 1-1 by slipping past Ellensburg, 67-65. \"We desperately needed that win,\" said relieved first year Coach Steve Urrutia. The victory over the Bulldogs came in just the second conference game of the season for Alderwood, after the Grizzlies went 1-5 in non-league competition to open the year. Urrutia said his entire squad had a hand in Saturday's win, describing the effort against the Bulldogs as \"...an overall, good team effort.\" Two of his Grizzlies, though, stood out from the pack at the end of Saturday's fray. Most notable, perhaps, was senior point guard Jessie Ramirez, who sank the winning basket in the closing seconds. Teammate Jake Thomas also had a big hand, quite literally in fact, when he swatted away a potentially game tying shot just as time expired. The Grizzlies were leading Ellensburg by five late in the game and attempted to pull even further ahead when they put up an unsuccessful shot with 1:13 remaining in the contest. The Bulldogs rebounded the miss and fed the ball to Riley Sieback, who nailed a long range 3-pointer to draw Ellensburg to within 67-65. Alderwood turned the ball over on the ensuing possession, and the Bulldogs took advantage of the miscue when Jason Brozovich canned a 2-point bucket to square the game at 65-all. With the contest knotted up even with 20 seconds remaining, Urrutia said he elected for his troops to play for the last shot. Ramirez eventually drove the lane, flicking a shot towards the hoop, but the ball rolled off the rim. In a blink of the eye, Ramirez grabbed the miss and popped the ball back through the hoop to give Alderwood a 67-65 lead. Ellensburg had four seconds remaining to work the ball upcourt for a desperation attempt, but the potentially game tying shot the Bulldogs got off was swatted out of the air by Thomas-his second but probably his biggest block of the game. Besides the two blocks he had Saturday night, the 6'6\" Thomas poured in a game high 18 points and led the Grizzlies on the boards with a team high six rebounds. Ramirez, too, put up some imposing numbers against the Bulldogs. He scorched the net for 17 points, 11 of them coming in the second half when the Grizzlies outscored Ellensburg by a 40-36 margin to take control of the game. Ramirez also led Alderwood with four assists and came away with a game high five steals. Another Grizzly who excelled Saturday was junior Cody Heckert, who knocked down 10 of his 12 points after intermission. \"Cody came off the bench and played super for us,\" said Urrutia. The Alderwood coach also had praise for exchange student Branimir Janjevic, a 6'0\" senior. Janjevic normally doesn't see a lot of time on the floor, but he played several minutes Saturday filling in for players who were in foul trouble. \"He gave us some good minutes out there,\" Urrutia said. The Alderwood cage team will make up its home contest from last week with Selah, which was delayed because of the poor weather, this Tuesday night on the Grizzlies' floor. The game at Hanford that was cancelled last week will be made up on the Falcons' home floor on Tuesday, Jan. 20. . Bob Story,can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or e-mail him at bstory@hawkpress.com Ellensburg 14 15 20 16 -65 Alderwood 14 13 21 19 -67 2-pt. FG-Ellensburg 15/31, Alderwood 18/35. 3-pt. FG-Ellensburg 5/11, Alderwood 3/12 (Zamarron 2, Heckert 1). FT-Ellensburg 10/18, Alderwood 16/29. Rbd.-Ellensburg 44 (Sieback 10), Alderwood 31 (Thomas 6). Ellensburg-Robinson 14, Griffith 17, Aaron 0, Fair 4, Brozovich 15, Gray 9, Siebach 16, Fork 0, Gordon 0. Alderwood-Sanchez 0, Ramirez 17, Cantu 6, Simmons 0, Zamarron 6, Heckert 12, Van de Graaf 6, Schilperoort 2, Thomas 18, Janjevic 0"}
{"Id":"1101163870513","Title":"Alderwood girls humbled by Ellensburg","Author":"John Panni","Time":"1/12/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"The time has come for the Alderwood High School girls basketball team to do some soul searching. The Lady Grizzlies were literally humbled this past Saturday night at home by Ellensburg. The loss dropped the Lady Grizzlies to 0-2 in Mid-Valley League play (3-5 overall), putting Alderwood into a must-win situation at home this Tuesday night against Selah. Simply put, the Lady Grizzlies were dominated by the Tiffanie Ulmer-led Lady Bulldogs in Saturday night's pairing, losing 62-28. \"They are a good team,\" said Alderwood Coach Leo Gomez. \"I know we can play with them.\" About the only thing that went right for the Lady Grizzlies was the first few minutes of the game. Alderwood led 7-5 to open the first quarter, but the Lady Bulldogs went on an 11-2 run to finish out the opening period. Gomez said Alderwood couldn't take advantage of the opportunities Ellensburg gave in the first quarter. Ulmer ended up in foul trouble in the first period and had to go to the bench. But with Ellensburg's best player sitting down, the rest of the Lady Bulldogs stepped forward. Gomez said he credits an experienced Ellensburg roster with being able to come to the forefront when needed. \"Everything was going great,\" said Gomez of the game early on. \"But the other kids stepped up for Ellensburg. I think we stood around too much. My kids aren't stepping up.\" The evidence of the Lady Grizzlies standing around was in their offensive output. Alderwood didn't break double digits in the scoring column in any of the four quarters. Alderwood trailed at the end of the first half, 34-15. The Lady Grizzlies were outscored 28-13 in the second half. The Lady Bulldogs put their mark on the game in the second quarter. Ellensburg hit four field goals and sank 10 foul shots in the second quarter while Alderwood's scoring consisted of a pair of field goals and two free throws. In Ellensburg's 21-5 run in the third quarter, the Lady Bulldogs hit nine field goals while Alderwood made only two from the field. \"They couldn't miss,\" said Gomez. \"They just had everything going. We couldn't take advantage of what they gave us.\" Andrea Phillips was the leading scorer for Alderwood with 6 points. Ulmer led the Lady Bulldogs with 13. Gomez said his Lady Grizzlies have to step up to the plate in Tuesday's game against Selah. Tuesday's game against the Lady Vikings was postponed from Jan. 6 because of the weather. \"I have a young team,\" said Gomez. \"We just need to win.\" Gomez feels his eight juniors need to put forth more productivity as the season goes on for Alderwood to be successful. \"The juniors have to realize what they need to do,\" said Gomez. . John Panni can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or email him at mPanni@hawkpress.com 1 2 3 4 T Ellensburg 16 18 21 7 62 Alderwood 9 6 5 8 28 Scoring: Alderwood-Andrea Phillips 6, Erica Mendez 5, Hilary Van de Graaf 4, Kacee Jo Bootsma 3, Vanessa Alvarez 3, Daniela Rivera 2, Monique Montelongo 2, Lana Pangle 1. Ellensburg-Tiffanie Ulmer 13. Rebounds: Bobi Haringa 6. Assists: Andrea Phillips 2"}
{"Id":"1101163886904","Title":"Local schools being pressured to limit soft drink sales to teens","Author":"Jamie Smart","Time":"1/12/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Area educators feel there is no need for a new bill which is being proposed in the 2004 Washington state legislative session. State child nutrition advocates concerned that children are being exposed to too much junk food at school want school districts to work harder to limit the number of vending machines in hallways. Based on a recent American Academy of Pediatrics report calling for the restriction of the sale of soft drinks to students, the Washington State Children's Alliance plans to present a bill before the state lawmakers to limit junk food sales in schools. The bill is expected to be introduced this session, which began today (Jan. 12), according to Shelley Curtis, a food policy manager for the Children's Alliance. Last year, the Alliance and several other children's advocacy groups supported a failed bill to place nutritional content standards on foods sold or served in elementary and middle schools. \"Schools need to model and reinforce healthy eating and physical activity behaviors,\" she said. But according to Lower Valley school district administrators, the availability of the mix of soft drinks and dairy product vending machines in the schools allows students to have options. Alderwood School District Superintendent Dr. Aaron Bones and Mabton School District Superintendent Kevin Chase said students have the option to purchase milk or soft drinks at their schools. \"In fact, we are finding that the milk and juice vending machines have been well received by the students,\" said Bones. He said Alderwood School District's milk vending machines are located next to the high school and middle school cafeterias. In addition, all meals at the schools offer milk as part of the district's nutrition programs. \"We also have soft drinks and bottled water vending machines in our high school and middle schools,\" he said. \"We are sensitive to the need to offer our students healthy options,\" he said. But nutritional experts don't think that is good enough. According to a Washington State Department of Health report, one in five Washington adolescents in grades nine through 12 were found to be either overweight or obese, a situation health experts attribute to the over-consumption of sugar laden soft drinks. The American Academy of Pediatrics in a recent \"Soft Drinks in Schools\" report, said that sweetened drinks constitute the primary source of added sugar in the daily diet of American children. The report claims that each 12-ounce serving of carbonated, sweetened soft drink contains the equivalent of 10 teaspoons of sugar and, according to the AAP report, between 56 and 85 percent of school-age children consume at least one soft drink daily. The AAP is recommending the restriction of the sale of soft drinks in schools as a step toward safeguarding the health of all students. While no one is saying schools should get rid of the vending machines, advocates like Dr. Amy Belko of Olympia just wants healthy food put into the vending machines. \"Washington's a great dairy state,\" she said. \"Promote our own cows, have chocolate milk, have regular milk, have yogurt and have fruit drinks and support apple growers of Washington,\" she urges. \"We are already doing that\" said Mabton School Superintendent Chase, whose school district also offers both milk and soft drink vending machines in Mabton's combination middle and high school facility. \"Our snack vending machines also have healthy treats in them,\" he said. Chase wonders why the nutrition advocates want to place another burden on educators .\"We already have our hands full trying to teach children academics. Shouldn't part of the effort for nutritional education be placed back on parents? \"We don't need more curriculum to teach,\" he said. \"Why not leave nutrition to the children's family to deal with,\" he said. \"We're already providing nutritious hot breakfasts and lunches to our students. We really don't need another issue on our plates,\" he said. . Jamie Smart can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or you can e-mail her at jSmart@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101163887201","Title":"Lower Valley legislators begin work anew today","Author":"Bob Story","Time":"1/12/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"OLYMPIA - For the next two months, Lower Valley legislators Dan Newhouse and Bruce Chandler are going to have their hands full. The two Republican state representatives joined their cohorts in Olympia today for the 2004 session. This year's gathering in Olympia for the state's elected officials will be a short 60-day session. Both men say much work must be crammed into the short period of time. Besides trying to thwart the attempts of Gov. Gary Locke to siphon money from the state's reserve funds, Newhouse and Chandler say legislators' plates will be filled this year with several issues that need to be addressed immediately. One of those issues is reforming the state's medical malpractice guidelines. Both Alderwood area legislators say the current costs of malpractice insurance, in terms of both premiums and settlements, are bankrupting the medical profession and driving physicians out of the state. \"It's at a point of total meltdown,\" said Newhouse, presently serving his first term in the House of Representatives. \"We're losing doctors, especially in our smaller communities. \"Right now there are 21 doctors in Yakima County who can't get malpractice insurance. It's either too expensive or it's not offered,\" he said. Newhouse and Chandler explain that one of the reasons the premiums for medical malpractice insurance are not affordable is because claims are so high. The two political allies say caps must be implemented on all medical malpractice claims. \"One of the ideas being talked about is assigning an amount of responsibility,\" said Chandler. In essence, that means setting a percentage or a ceiling on the amount of money a claimant could collect. Newhouse and Chandler are quick to point out that advocates of this idea aren't trying to limit the insurance payout to people who successfully file claims for such things as actual medical bills and time lost from work. \"What we're talking about is a pain and suffering cap,\" said Newhouse, explaining that instead of millions of dollars being awarded by courtroom juries, a more sensible ceiling for such settlements might fall in the 250,000 range. Newhouse is a sitting member of the House judiciary committee, which ensures that at the very least the topic of medical malpractice reform will be addressed this session. Also apt to be tossed around in legislative chambers this session, say Newhouse and Chandler, is the issue of health care costs. \"We've had double-digit growth in health care costs for several years,\" said Chandler. \"Health care costs are affecting everyone...business, you and me, state government.\" Changes that are needed, say the two legislators, include Medicaid reimbursement rate adjustments, redefining small group insurance rates and having more flexibility in insurance coverages. Reforming the way the state adjudicates water rights is bound to come up in discussions in Olympia this session, too. The two men said the state's \"use it or lose it\" measure needs to be changed so that farmers and ranchers aren't penalized for not using irrigation water. \"After all, if you don't need irrigation water one season and you leave water in the stream, it's benefiting fish,\" said Chandler. Under current state law, those holding water rights must give up their water to the state if they haven't utilized their rights for five successive years. Reform to the state's Department of Labor and Industries division is also badly needed, say both Chandler and Newhouse. \"We need to look at how the L&I trust fund is managed,\" said Chandler. \"And, L&I has to do a better job at getting people back to work. \"Accountability is needed-both in minimizing fraud and in doing a better job of getting people's claims approved in a more timely manner,\" he added. Newhouse and Chandler said they are also unhappy with the news that Locke, who is giving up his seat as governor this fall, has indicated that his supplemental budget will draw down the surplus funds that have been stored away by legislators. \"Locke is abandoning the (budgetary) principles that were established last year,\" said Newhouse. He and Chandler went on to explain that Locke is proposing to expand on the state's existing programs, in areas such as increasing the enrollment counts at state universities. \"If we deplete our reserves and abandon our budget approach, it will make for more difficult times,\" said Chandler. \"What's being proposed in this supplemental budget will amount to a 1 billion deficit.\" Both men say now is not the time to put Washington state into further economic peril. They said the sound financial principles that were adhered to in last year's legislative session need to be continued this session, in hopes that the state's economic climate continues to rebound. . Bob Story,can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or e-mail him at bstory@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101163887435","Title":"It's a no-brainer, vote YES twice","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"1/9/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"Simply put, there isn't a logical reason not to cast two YES votes on Feb. 3 when deciding the fate of the Alderwood School District bond and levy issues. Alderwood School District patrons are being presented with a golden opportunity. Passing these two ballot issues will give local voters the biggest bang for their buck that they've had in quite some time. The first of the two election issues is a special levy, in the amount of 1,422,595. If Alderwood area voters approve this levy, the state will kick in an additional 3,744,357 annually, for four years. That totals pretty darn close to 15 million. This state money, which is referred to as equalization funds, is earmarked for school districts that can't draw off of the high property tax rates that some of our westside school districts can. The one catch, though, in being awarded these equalization funds is that a special levy must be passed by local voters. In essence, by assessing ourselves a special levy, in this case 1,422,595, it shows state officials that we are making a financial commitment to our schools. And in turn the state rewards our commitment by giving us an extra 15 million over a four-year stretch. The second of the two Feb. 3 election items we'll be voting on is an 11 million bond issue, which also qualifies us for more than 30 million in construction funds from the state over a several-year period. All told, passage of these two issues will make approximately 46 million available to the Alderwood School District. This money is earmarked for the construction of two new schools, as well as the modernization of two other buildings. The money generated by your two YES votes on Feb. 3 will also be spent on new technology, the funding of student resource officers in our schools and other safety and security measures, student activities that aren't normally funded by the state, new buses, maintenance and capital improvement projects, and on enriching the curriculum taught in our schools. Why, you may ask, does the Alderwood School District need to build two more schools? It's because our district is growing by leaps and bounds. Our Alderwood student body has increased by more than 90 kids, on average, each of the past 10 years. In 1993 our school district had 4,508 students. This year we have 5,442 students attending classes. Many of them are housed in portables. In fact, the district has 47 portables in use because there isn't enough room in our schools to house them all. And many of these portables are more than 20 years old. Finally, the burning question is, what is all of this going to cost you-the taxpayer? The answer is: next to nothing by today's standards. Because of current indebtedness, local school district patrons voting no would see their property taxes rise 15 for every 1,000 that their property is assessed. But for an extra nickel, that's right, just 5 for every 1,000 of assessed value, Alderwood area residents will generate 46 million for local coffers...money that is needed to stay in step with our growing district. How much more out of your pocket is this extra nickel assessment going to cost you? Well, if you own a home valued at 90,000, you're going to see an increase in your property taxes of 4.50. Instead of the 15 increase that you would already see because of current indebtedness, we're talking about a total increase of 18 for an owner of a 90,000 home. That's less than a 20 bill....a small price to pay to ensure Alderwood children are given every possible opportunity to learn and grow. It's a no-brainer. Vote YES and YES on your Feb. 3 ballot. It's too good of a deal to pass up"}
{"Id":"1101163887717","Title":"Forum","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"1/9/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"1-Column Yes votes urged I have lived in the Alderwood School District for many years and have always supported kids and public schools. From 1973 to 1977 it was my pleasure to have served as a board member of the Alderwood School District. I have listened to a presentation from school administrators on the cost of the bond issue and special levy and how the money will be used. The special levy will replace the levy approved in February 2000. The bond issue will be used to build new schools and remodel others. The difference in cost of voting yes or no is only 5 a year if your home is valued at 100,000. The board of directors have done what they said they were going to do lower taxes and bring a lot of money into the Alderwood School District with the special levy. The bond issue is needed because we are growing over 100 students per year and we need more classrooms and more teachers to keep up. If a new school is constructed, the state will pay 82 percent of the cost. You can't beat a deal like that. I urge you to vote \"yes\" and \"yes\" on both issues. /s/ John Greenhalgh, former Alderwood School District board member Seeking all REC funds pointless I appreciated the Jan. 8 article covering the City Council s confusion about Councilwoman Jennie Angel s participation on the LYVREC Board. I was appointed by the mayor last summer to be a member of the REC Board and was elected vice-president. I want to assure the Alderwood community and the City Council that Mrs. Angel did represent the Council s proposal for all of the remaining funds. She brought the matter to the attention of the REC Board at the next meeting, right after it was requested of her to do so. What the City Council does not seem to understand is that it has no authority to control those funds, but merely to have representation for the benefit of the Alderwood and Grandview communities. This seems particularly curious since Councilman John Torch is a former member of the REC Board. The funds came from a federal grant and are disbursed through Yakima County for the benefit of the two tracts which include Alderwood and Grandview. Of the large grant that was originally made available, only 100,000 is remaining. The City Council is also trying to get back money that was allocated last year for the neighborhood outreach program, which cannot be done. The expectation for Councilwoman Angel to go to the REC meeting and demand all the remaining funds is pointless. The REC Board is legally accountable to the county and the federal government for appropriate and fair disbursement of the funds. Mrs. Angel is one member among several, from both cities, who have worked together to establish a criteria by which many organizations can compete for funds through the grant system. The Sunnyview Skate Park is a viable project, as are the other six proposals that are under consideration. It s too bad that there is not more money to cover all of the requests. The REC Board is doing a very careful job deciding how to fairly distribute the available funds. /s/ Dr. Michael Henry, Pastor, Alderwood Free Methodist Church Time for a new S side newspaper? Bob Story s policy of front page editorials, where he unethically presents his opinion in hopes that it will be conceived by the public as fact, has unfortunately left the community of Alderwood with no credible local source of information regarding our local politics. (He does not live in the city and rarely attends council meetings. Where does he derive his information and opinions.) Some issues that are very important to the decision-making process of Alderwood voters are misrepresented in his paper due to his unethical, journalistic tactics of attempting to MAKE the news rather than report it. A recent example is his year-ending, 12-31-2003 headline, Alderwood councilman insists she wants to unite community. This article about Jennie Angel should have been a letter to the editor. But, Story once again gave preferential coverage on the front page to promote his personal agenda. It appears that the Alderwood Daily News is beginning to campaign early in the election year early and providing expensive space to their chosen candidate. Strategically, his articles falsely erode the efforts of many of our elected persons who have contributed greatly to our community and conducted the business of Alderwood to promote the community in an effort to dig this community out of a hole created by 15 years of special interest politics during the Leo Fancy regime. The Alderwood Daily News waged a similar undermining campaign against the outstanding efforts of, then councilman Chad Werkhoven. Those who know of Werkhoven s commitment to integrity and work ethic, watched in dismay as the Alderwood Daily News savagely and unjustly painted him as a racist to provide an unfair advantage to his opponent. Similar to Story, most of the community voters do not attend council meetings and have only the front-page opinions of the Alderwood Daily News for information, or misinformation. John Panni is a consistent bright spot in this dark-sided-news reporting. Eagle Press, owner of the Alderwood Daily News, is located in Hood River, Ore. The owners are far removed from emotional or ethical responsibility for the activities of their satellite newspapers. Story s front page editorializing must reflect the policy of Eagle Press or they would be more prudent about monitoring such violations of journalistic etiquette. As we begin to search for a city manager to fill the big boots of stalwart Dave Fonfara, maybe it is also time to solicit individuals who would be willing to invest in a news media of accurate reporting, as Bob Osland did more than 40 years ago when he created the seed for the Alderwood Daily News with a paper consisting of one legal-sized sheet of colored copy paper. /s/ James E. Stevens, DMD, Past Alderwood City Councilman (Publisher's note: The Alderwood Daily News is a part of Hawk Press, Inc., a group of Northwest community newspapers based in Salem, Ore. Contact information: Hawk Press, Inc.; P.O. Box 12008; 4901 Indian School Rd.; Salem, Ore. 97305; 1503-373-1774; President, James O. Wells) Becomingan American President Theodore Roosevelt gave an answer in 1890 in an address before the Holland Society of New York that I would like to share here: \"We of the Holland blood of New York have just cause to be proud of the men of note in American history who have come from among us...(but) the point on which I wish to insist is, that the Hollanders could never have played such a part, could never have won honorable renown by doing their full share in shaping the destiny of the republic, had they remained Hollanders instead of becoming Americans...Had they remained aliens in speech and habit of thought. Schuyler would have been a mere boorish provincial squire instead of a major general in the Revolutionary Army, Van Buren would have been a country tavern keeper instead of the President of the mightiest republic the world has ever seen, and Vanderbilt would have remained an unknown boatman instead of becoming one of the most potent architects of the marvelous American industrial fabric.\" /s/ Hank Timmermans, Alderwood"}
{"Id":"1101163888138","Title":"City moves forward with Lincoln Avenue upgrade","Author":"John Panni","Time":"1/9/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Lincoln Avenue in Alderwood should have a new look to it rather soon. At the recommendation of City Engineer Jim Bridges, the Alderwood City Council approved this past Monday night moving forward with a project to vastly improve Lincoln Avenue. Prior to the discussion, Mayor Pro-tem George Greenway asked to be excused because his business, Bob's Auto Clinic, is located on Lincoln Avenue. Bridges said the city, led by Public Works Director Gary Potter, originally applied for a grant to upgrade Lincoln Avenue in August 2002. Alderwood lost the money for the project with the passage of I-695. Bridges said the state legislature, though, recognized the need to fund the street projects which lost funding with the passage of I-695. Bridges told the Council the legislature took the money for the projects out of the collection of fines obtained in school zones. The project will take place along Lincoln Avenue between Sixth Street and 16th Street. Bridges said he was contacted by John Moffat, director of the Washington State Traffic Safety Commission, a few months ago about moving forward with the project. The grant the city is receiving from the state is in the amount of 52,000. Under the terms of the grant, the city will agree to provide 14,000 in matching funds. The Alderwood School District will also provide 4,000 in matching funds for the project, since four school buildings are located in that vicinity. The project will include the installation of sidewalks and ramps to accommodate people with disabilities. There will also be new crosswalks and electronic speed limit signs installed that will make it easier to change the speed limit in school zones. Alderwood School District Executive Director of School and Community Resources Ruben Carrera was on hand Monday to voice support for the project. The project has to be completed by June 2005. Bridges said he would like to see the city begin work on Lincoln Avenue this summer and have it completed by the time school starts in the fall. Bridges related to the Council officials are hoping the Lincoln Avenue improvement project can become a model for other school districts across the state to mirror. . John Panni can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or email him at mPanni@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101163888435","Title":"City Council admonishes Angel (again","Author":"John Panni","Time":"1/8/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"Alderwood City Councilwoman Jennie Angel didn't leave the first Council meeting of the year unscathed. For the second consecutive meeting, Angel was chastised by her peers for her efforts in the community. At Monday's Council meeting, Angel was admonished for her representation of the Council with the Lower Alderwood Valley Rural Enterprise Community (REC). The Council is seeking all the money the REC group has available, to help operate SunnyView Park. Angel was scolded for her efforts perceived in forming an Hispanic chamber of commerce in Alderwood, by Councilmen John Torch and Tom Seeger. At this past Monday's meeting, Torch brought forth some concerns he has in regards to the Council's request from REC for all of its remaining funds to help in the operation of SunnyView Park. REC board members are currently reviewing applications from those seeking the nearly 150,000 the agency has left. Some of that money has already been allocated for other projects, such as community outreach programs in Alderwood and Grandview, explained Angel, who is involved with the outreach efforts. Torch reiterated the Council had requested all of the remaining money the REC has available, and that it was Angel's job to relay that to the REC board, which she also sits on. Alderwood Parks and Recreation Director Don Stiles said the SunnyView Park project was one of the projects the REC board approved looking at in late November. The REC board is looking to fund the proposal for SunnyView Park in the amount of 100,000. Stiles said he will be making the city's presentation for funding to the REC board this weekend. Torch, though, wanted to know why the REC board wasn't making available all of its remaining money. \"It doesn't seem we were represented fairly,\" said Torch, who also made a motion to remove Angel as the city representative on the REC board, and nominated Mayor Pro-tem George Greenway. Angel explained that the city's proposal was a one-page letter, highlighting its request. Angel said she brought forth the issue of SunnyView Park to Yakima County grant programs director Steve Hill, who helps oversee the REC program. Hill told Angel that the city would have to make its request for available REC money known in its proposal. Angel told the Council that only the money the REC was putting out for proposals, 100,000, would be made available. She said the board's remaining dollars are already allocated for other programs, such as community outreach. Juan Angel, past president of the REC board, confirmed what Councilwoman Angel was saying. He said he spoke with Hill, who said only 100,000 was available to fund projects. Councilman Tom Seeger said he remembers asking Angel to relay the Council's wishes for all of the remaining REC money. \"Our representative is representing the Council, not an individual,\" said Seeger. Angel, though, said she couldn't understand the strategy in the Council wanting all of the REC's remaining money, which includes 15,000 set aside for outreach efforts in the community of Grandview. . John Panni can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or email him at mPanni@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101163888701","Title":"City works to create simple one-stop permit center","Author":"Jamie Smart","Time":"1/8/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"Obtaining a Alderwood city building permit will be a lot simpler in the coming months, if a one-stop proposal works as planned. Builders and residents will be able to make one visit to city hall's planning department to request, pick-up and pay for building permits, claim city officials. In addition, if the plan works as suggested, contractors and builders will be able to bring in plan reviews for examination and approval with minimum fuss. \"It's our intention to handle issues for the customers while they wait, rather than have them return in two weeks for their permits and approvals,\" Alderwood Planning and Community Development Director Pete Squires explained. \"It's our intention to have a single counter where all types of city permits and licenses will be available,\" he said. With the exception of dog licenses, which will still be available at the city Law and Justice Center, residents will be able to request and pay for all permits and licenses, including special use permits, at the planning department office at city hall. He said the plan has been moving slowly into place, but should be completed within the next two to three months. \"We are waiting on some computer software for a cash terminal to made the project complete,\" Squires explained. Not only will residents and builders be able to request the necessary permits in one location, they won't have to travel all over city hall in order to pay for the permits, Squires explained. \"And, in most cases, customers will be able to have all their paperwork done the same day,\" Squires predicted. Currently, a person seeking a building permit must go to the planning department, then the finance department to pay for the permit. The customer then has to bring the payment receipt back to the planning department before being given the necessary approval. \"It's been a complicated process that wastes the time of residents unnecessarily,\" Squires explained. He said the one-stop permit counter transition is now moving into place. \"We've already started to streamline the permitting process,\" he added. \"We want to make the process as community friendly as possible,\" Squires said. . Jamie Smart can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or you can e-mail her at jSmart@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101163888935","Title":"Obituaries","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"12/7/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"PAID OBITUARY CARL HOWARD STINSON Carl Howard Stinson, 82, of Sonoma, Calif., and former resident of Alderwood died Monday, Sept. 29, 2003, with his son, Mark and daughter, Christy at his side. Howard was born Aug. 29, 1921, at home in Alderwood, to Carl Elias Stinson and Cynthia Graham Stinson. His mother died when he was five-years-old leaving his father, an immigrant Swedish farmer, with two step-sons, a daughter, Dora Christine, and another son, Stanley, to care for. Howard worked hard on the farm from an early age and at one point was in charge of the cooking for the family and said he never wanted to cook again. Yet, he took it up again, when his wife of 57 years developed Alzheimer s disease. Howard attended Alderwood High School during the Depression. It was there that he met Della Joy Matthew, who would later become his wife. Hard work was a constant element of his life and his personal motto printed in the 1939 yearbook summed up his restlessness and belief in his own abilities that defined him for the rest of his life. If I could get out of here, I could get something done. An intelligent man with a photographic memory, Howard attended Washington State University studying engineering, but at the outbreak of WWII, he worked in the shipyards in Seattle before taking exams for the Army Air Corps. Commissioned as an officer, Howard piloted A-26 bombers over Germany, flying out of England and later France. At the end of the war he ferried planes back to the United States via Africa and South America. Howard s engineer s mind served him well when he started his own construction company after the war using army surplus for equipment. He was active in the Junior Chamber of Commerce in Alderwood, as was honored as Man of the Year in the early 1950s. He moved his family to Kingston and later The Dalles, Ore., where he became a successful business owner along with his brother, Stanley, operating Interstate Paving Company. He was the past president of Oregon Asphalt Paving Association, a member of the Jaycees, The Dalles Elks Club and The Dalles Country Club. Retiring from paving, Howard and Della developed the Pomona Mobile Home Park in The Dalles. Howard always loved the newest toy. He started his collection with army surplus airplanes, motorcycles and boats. He always had his own small plane, and also owned and flew a helicopter and in his 70s, an ultra-light. As a pilot he also loved to travel, enjoying trips to Asia, Europe and Egypt with his wife. Impatience was always with him and when age, diabetes and arthritis caught up with him he seemed truly surprised that he couldn t do everything he had once done. He is survived by his wife, Della Joy Matthew Stinson, son and daughter-in-law, Mark and Celia Stinson, daughter and son-in-law, Christy and John Coulston, all of Sonoma, Calif., daughter and son-in-law, Cindy Stinson-Chennell and Chris Chennell of McMinnville, Ore., daughter, Jane Stinson of Anchorage, Alaska; sister, Dora Christine Martinez of Richland; and brother, Stanley Stinson of The Dalles; along with grandchildren, Jessica and Andrew Stinson, Mildred and Libby Chennell and Kyle and Corey Madden. No funeral services were held at the deceased s request however the family met at the Oregon Coast in a celebration of Howard s life and to spread his ashes over an area he particularly loved"}
{"Id":"1101163889170","Title":"Forum","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"1/7/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"1-Column Recognition appreciated Thank you so much for the picture and article that you put on the front page of the paper! I was shocked when I saw it and read it because I feel like I am the \"background\" for the concerts. It touched my heart very much when I was recognized. I really do like working with Mrs. Sleater and the high school choir ladies and gentlemen. The gift they gave me was a surprise and a blessing. Please remember that (school) concerts are awesome and it is a time for anyone to come and celebrate all that (the students) have learned and worked hard to perform for family and friends. Thank you, Jamie Smart, for the blessing you gave me in this way! /s/ Dorothy Cohu, AHS choir pianist, Grandview Vote YES and YES Please join me in suporting the Alderwood School District board of directors by voting YES and YES for the two proposals on the Feb. 3 election ballot. Why vote yourself a continued tax? It is a great bargain when you consider that the maintenance and operation levy raises 1,422,595 locally, which then qualifies the Alderwood School District for 3,744,357 in state levy equalization funds. If we don't pass the local levy we can't receive the state matching funds. Then, other westside schols will qualify and receive these matching dollars. These funds are used for a wide variety of eduational programs, as well as maintenance, capital projects, curriculum, technology, safety, music and the unfunded costs for extracurricular programs. As for the need for another new school, Alderwood schools have been growing at a rate of 100 students per year for the past 15 years. Since 1993 when the school board asked you to support the 8 million bond levy for Pioneer School, the student population has increased by 1,106 students. Pioneer School was built for 700 to 750 students. This school now houses 935 students with the help of 10 portable classrooms. The new building bond of 11 million will build a new middle school, and add classroom space for the ninth graders who are currently housed at Alderwood High School. It will also qualify the district for 82 percent reimbursement funds from the state. This means that the local taxpayer will only pay 18 percent of the total cost of a new school building. These reimbursement funds can be used to update and remodel other district school buildings as they age and qualify. This 11 million can be turned into nearly 40 million in new construction and modernization for our existing schools. What does all this cost? If you own a home valued at 100,000, you will pay 20 per year more in school taxes. Alderwood has a great opportunity to continue its fine tradition of educational excellence at a cost that is far less than most of our neighboring school districts. We have a strong tradition of supporting schools, students, teachers and administrators. I urge you to join me in voting YES and YES in the coming election. If you have questions or need additional information, please call school district administrators or the YES Committee members. /s/ Mac Chambers, retired Alderwood School Superintendent"}
{"Id":"1101163889404","Title":"Everson girl spends holiday shadowing Alderwood ER nurses","Author":"Jamie Smart","Time":"1/7/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Unlike most young people her age, Lindsey Schlotfeldt didn't spend her New Year's Eve holiday skiing or doing other winter time activities. The serious-minded, Everson woman was found shadowing Alderwood Community Hospital emergency room nurses during the days leading up to 2004. Last Tuesday and Wednesday nights, the first year nursing student tagged along with Alderwood ER nurses Kristi Cramblit-Powers and Janice Schell, in order to get a first-hand feel for working the emergency room. She also had the opportunity to visit the medical floor during her two-day job shadow experience. Schlotfeldt was in Alderwood over the holidays visiting her uncle, Alderwood Police Chief Ted Mana, who had put her in contact with Alderwood Community Hospital. Schlotfeldt's mother, Helen Schlotfeldt, worked at Alderwood Community Hospital nearly 13 years ago at the ER desk, so young Schlotfeldt was familiar with the community. \"I just wanted to see where she had worked,\" said the 18-year-old Seattle Pacific University student. \"Uncle Ed helped me make arrangements to spend time in the hospital emergency room over New Year's Eve,\" Schlotfeldt added. She said she has always wanted to be a nurse. Even though working as an emergency room nurse may not be her future nursing career choice. \"I do hope one day to work in the area of pediatric nursing,\" she explained. Schlotfeldt said she appreciated the opportunity for the first-hand experience. \"Janice and Kristi, who is one of my mom's friends, were very nice and helpful,\" she added. \"We were happy to have Lindsey join us,\" said Schell. \"We hope she had a good experience,\" she added. Schlotfeldt's request to shadow professional nurses is welcomed by the hospital administration. \"We try to work with individuals who are interested in seeing first-hand the world of nursing,\" said Tom Lathen, the hospital's director of community relations and physician recruitment. He said job shadows and on-site tours are one way for the hospital to encourage young people to look up-close at careers in the medical field. \"We have scholarships and other incentives available for health careers students and we want to make them available to those interested,\" he said. Persons interested in nursing careers or lab technician careers are encouraged to contact Linda Garner, SCH's director of nursing, or Lisa Gray in human resources for more information. . Jamie Smart can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or you can e-mail her at jSmart@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101163903826","Title":"Superintendent spells out new bond/levy proposal","Author":"John Panni","Time":"1/7/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"It basically boils down to what difference does 5 make to Alderwood residents. Well, 5 could make a few million dollars difference, according to Alderwood School District Superintendent Dr. Aaron Bones. Bones presented the forthcoming bond/levy proposal, which will go before Alderwood School District voters in the next few weeks, to his fellow Rotarians at the Alderwood Noon Rotary meeting on Monday. Alderwood School District patrons who don't vote by absentee ballot will head to the polls on Feb. 3 to decide the fate of a bond/levy proposal, which could bring as much as 46 million in funding for new construction to the school district. Absentee voters will receive their ballots in the mail Jan. 14, said Bones. Of 15 school districts from Grandview to Yakima, Alderwood has the second lowest tax rate, 1.41 per 1,000 of assessed property value, said Bones. The Mt. Adams School District has only a lower tax rate, at 84 per 1,000 of assessed property value. The Mt. Adams School District receives a large amount of federal funding because it is on Yakama Indian Nation land. Highland has the highest tax rate in Yakima County at 5.49 per 1,000 of assessed property value. Grandview is second at 5.11 and East Valley is third at 4.92. Prior to 2001, the Alderwood School District never ran a levy, said Bones. The district only ran a series of bonds, which helped pay for construction at Alderwood High School and the building of Pioneer Elementary School. District patrons started incurring bond debt for the high school construction in 1987 at a rate of 2.57 per 1,000 of assessed property value. The rate fell to 2.27 per 1,000 of assessed property value by 1995 when the bond passed for the construction of Pioneer. Voters overwhelmingly passed Alderwood's first school district levy in 2000 with 74.7 percent voting in favor. The levy rate was 1.53 per 1,000 of assessed property value in 2001. The money from the levy goes to fund a variety of district activities, said Bones. The district is seeking a small increase from the 1.2 million levy approved in 2000. The 2004 levy is for 1.4 million. The bond issue before voters will be for 11 million. If the bond issue is approved, the district will qualify for reimbursement monies from the state, which would make a minimum of 40 million available for construction and remodels. Currently, Bones explained, patrons are only paying for the levy, not the bond voters approved in the past. The district pays for the bond using excess revenue dollars from the general fund. Bones said the district for years left untouched millions of dollars in untapped levy equalization money from the state because it didn't have a levy. The state provides school districts with levy equalization money to bring them up to par with funding received in the King County school districts. The bond portion of what the district is proposing to the voters involves several different projects, said Bones. Bones said the bond issue will help in the construction of two new schools and the modernization of two others. Bones said the district is looking to build a new middle school, sixth through eighth grades, and a new kindergarten through fifth grade elementary school. The bond will also cover the modernization of Washington Elementary School and Alderwood High School. Bones said the projects will be completed in the order above because of the funding cycle from the state. With the new make-up, there will be two middle schools, which will be entirely separate from one another, said Bones. The high school will also be different as the ninth grade will be separated from the rest of the student body in a learning academy type setting. Bones said the freshmen will still be able to take part in all high school activities. The remaining buildings in the school district will then become kindergarten through fifth grade buildings. The district opted to run a bond issue because of the increasing student population. In 1993, the school district had a head count (actual students in classrooms) of 4,508. The enrollment in 2003 was 5,442 students. Enrollment is projected to increase to 6,291 students by 2008. Bones said the district has increased by roughly 100 students every year for the past few years. \"Every time you have 100 kids that is five teachers and five classrooms,\" said Bones. The district is also running a bond issue to get away from the use of portables to house students. Alderwood currently has 47 portables, said Bones, many of which are more than 20 years old. The district will generate about 3.7 million in equalization dollars if the 1.4 million levy is passed. Alderwood uses the levy dollars to help pay for some unfunded district activities, such as athletics and safety and security issues. Bones said one benefit of passing the levy is the district will be able to keep its student resource officers. District patrons are going to see a 15 per 1,000 of assessed value increase to cover the bond indebtedness from constructing Pioneer School. For a nickel more, pointed out Bones, the district will gain a total of about 46 million in revenues if voters pass both the 2004 levy and bond issues. Bones explained district patrons would be saving money and getting a lot in return by approving the coming measure, since the school board has agreed to only collect the levy from voters. If the new bond cost were passed on to local patrons, the assessment would be 4.99 per 1,000 of assessed value. Bones said the amount collected on the levy could actually be less if the valuation of the school district changes. Alderwood School District has a current valuation of 844 million. The interesting part to the whole bond/levy issue is that if it fails, said Bones, district patrons will see their taxes go up 15 per 1,000 of assessed property value to pay for the bond debt the district already has on the books. Bones said the district can't afford to pay for the existing bond debt without the levy passing. Bones said for an additional 5 per 1,000 of assessed value the school district will be able to meet its needs and better serve students for years to come. . John Panni can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or email him at mPanni@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101163904092","Title":"Fonfara resigns, Rinz named interim city manager","Author":"John Panni","Time":"1/6/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"While he still has a couple of days left of work, the Alderwood City Council Monday night formally accepted the resignation of City Manager Dave Fonfara. Fonfara's last day of work as city manager will be Thursday, Jan. 8. Fonfara will be leaving Alderwood to become chief administrator for the city of Chelan, population of roughly 3,500 residents. \"He has done an incredible job,\" said Councilwoman Jennie Angel of Fonfara. \"He has been wonderful.\" \"This city is a far better place because you have been here,\" added Councilman Tom Seeger. \"You are going to be missed.\" Following an executive session Monday night, the Alderwood City Council formally approved the appointment of Assistant City Manager/City Attorney Bruce Rinz as the interim city manager. Council also approved a 5 percent pay increase for Rinz as interim city manager. Without the 5 percent pay increase, Rinz's current salary as assistant city manager/city attorney is 6,388 per month. This is the third time Rinz has been appointed as the interim city manager. Rinz filled in at the position following the resignations of former city managers Leo Fancey and Don Hahnfeldt. Fancey was forced out of his job in 1999 after nearly 18 years. Hahnfeldt was hired to replace Fancey and resigned six months after being hired. Fonfara was hired by the City of Chelan Thursday, Dec. 18. He will begin his position in Chelan on Jan. 12. Fonfara heads to Chelan after 23 years of service to the City of Alderwood. Fonfara was the city's first parks and recreation director, taking the position in 1980. After six years as parks director, Fonfara took the position as the director for the economic development agency, Alderwood Inc., which he held for 12 years. Fonfara was hired as the Alderwood city manager in 2000. Council held discussion on the process for hiring a new city manager following Monday night's executive session. Before Council could dive into the discussion, Alderwood resident Ivan White stepped forward. White thanked Fonfara for his 23 years of service to Alderwood residents. \"He will be missed tremendously,\" said White. \"There is some benefit. I might have a chance of winning fantasy football now.\" The Council initially set the salary range for the new city manager between 80,489 and 84,276 per year, as it currently stands in the 2004 budget. Seeger suggested the Council change the posting to read the salary range read between 80-90,000 per year, depending on qualifications. White disagreed with the direction Council wants to take with the salary for the new city manager. \"I think you are under paying this position,\" said White. White said he has always felt the Council hasn't paid the city manager enough. White said he felt the city manager should be paid in comparison with what Alderwood School District Superintendent Dr. Aaron Bones is making, which is 113,000. \"We need somebody to come into this community and do what Dave did,\" said White. \"(Paying) 80-90,000 is not going to get that done. You aren't going to attract somebody at that salary level to do this job.\" Seeger said he didn't disagree with what White was saying, but said it boiled down to financial resources. Seeger said the Council needs to stay in line with what is budgeted for 2004. White countered by saying the significantly smaller community of Chelan managed to nearly match Fonfara's current salary in Alderwood. As city manager, Fonfara was making 7,023 per month. \"If you get the right person in here, he will make it back for you 10 times,\" said White. Alderwood Fireman Bob Johnson cautioned the Council at dishing out any significant amounts of money for a new city manager. Johnson said the Council could be hearing back from the different bargaining units about what their respective department employees are being paid. Seeger answered Johnson's concerns by saying that it is relatively easy to find firefighters, saying the city has applicants lining up \"around the block\" for the position. Seeger said the city has a hard time finding a city manager or police officers and he wasn't sure why. Mayor Rex Luthor said he and Mayor Pro-tem George Greenway were going to take an active lead developing the posting for the city manager position. \"We are going to get rolling on this and get that posting out,\" said Luthor. Luthor also wished Fonfara good-bye at the Council meeting. \"It has been good Dave,\" said Luthor. \"I wish you well.\" . John Panni can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or email him at mPanni@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101163904326","Title":"More cold temps, snow invade Lower Valley","Author":"Melissa Browning","Time":"1/6/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"With Alderwood schools missing as many as 50 percent of their students the first day back after the winter break, the second day back was a bit smoother. \"Several of the elementary schools each had 200 or 250 students absent (Monday),\" said Julie Kaplicky, community relations coordinator for the school district. About half of the school district buses wouldn't start the first day back to school, but according to Kaplicky, this morning only six of the school district's 24 buses wouldn't start. \"Things went better this morning (Tuesday),\" said Kaplicky. Alderwood School District Transportation Director David Taylor said his department is working on getting the rest of the buses started. The buses were unable to start because of the dipping cold temperatures that fell below zero Sunday night and Monday morning. \"Our diesel fuel was gelling up on us and then the batteries didn't want to work,\" said Taylor. \"When diesel get so cold it gels. The buses will sit there and idle, but they won't move.\" Currently, transportation employees are putting antigel agent in the fuel and are replacing batteries. What helped the school district stay on schedule this morning was having bus inside overnight. \"We don't have enough room to house all of the buses inside,\" said Kaplicky. So, the school district contacted C. Speck Motors, which offered to house six of the diesel machines in their shop, according to Taylor. \"We had several offers in the community to house other buses,\" said Kaplicky. The school district was unable to take up other business on their offer because they couldn't get the last six buses started, but now that additional buses are running, Taylor said they may be calling businesses this afternoon. To help with the bus shortage Tuesday morning, the school district combined two routes and borrowed two buses from other school districts. \"We borrowed a bus from the Grandview School District and we borrowed a bus from the Zillah School District,\" said Kaplicky. ESD 105 helped us find the Zillah bus, she added. Now that the buses are running, Taylor's main concern, as the snow continues to fall, is slick roads. \"We're concerned about how much snow we're getting,\" said Taylor. As snow falls in the Lower Valley, there is still another day of inclement weather expected before a break in the cycle the end of this week. Rain, freezing rain and snow is called for on Wednesday. By Thursday, the weather is expected to warm to a high of 40 degrees with a low at 34 degrees. Warmer weather is also expected for Friday and Saturday. To help remove snow around the county the Washington Department of Transportation is ready to first focus on the main thoroughfares and then on some of the less traveled roads, according to WSDOT spokesperson Ann Briggs. Highway maintenance crews in six WSDOT regions, including Yakima County, are on winter schedules providing around-the-clock coverage when poor driving conditions are forecasted. According to Briggs, crews will first focus on the interstate freeways and other highways with the highest traffic volumes. Anti-ice, de-icer and sand will be applied to bridges, hills and curves where snow and ice can cause hazardous driving conditions. . Melissa Browning can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or e-mail mbrowning@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101163904561","Title":"No settlement yet in 2001 drowning of Alderwood child","Author":"Jamie Smart","Time":"1/6/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"A lawsuit centered on the Sept. 11, 2001 drowning death of a Washington Elementary School student is still expected to go to court by late spring, according to a Alderwood School District official. The lawyers for both sides of the issue are preparing to go to court sometime in late spring or early summer, said Dr. Aaron Bones, district superintendent. The lawsuit was filed in Yakima County Superior Court in July 2003, claiming the school district had been negligent in its supervision of the child. School officials report the boy was prone to running away. \"We have no direct contact with the lawsuit as it is now in the hands of our insurance company,\" said Bones. \"I understand some attempts have been made for an out-of- court settlement,\" he said. \"But it's also my understanding the case is still scheduled to go to trial in late spring,\" Bones added. The lawsuit is seeking unspecified damages for the family of Joshua Hui, an autistic 6-year-old student who wandered away from the Jackson Street school on Sept. 11, 2001. The child was the subject of a city-wide search by the school district personnel and the Alderwood Police Department, before his body was found in the canal near Southwest Crescent Avenue. The lawsuit is being handled by Kevan S. Montoya of Yakima for Joshua Hui's parents, John and Qing-Fen Hui of Alderwood, who allege the school district failed in its duty to properly monitor the boy. . Jamie Smart can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or you can e-mail her at jSmart@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101163904795","Title":"14 year old chosen to watch over para-pro's children","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"1/5/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"When Alderwood High School teacher Suzanne Walker asked if anyone would be interested in a job that paid 10 an hour, many students' ears perked up. However, it was 14-year-old freshman Jolene Merry who was chosen to fill the position. For the past three months, Merry has been spending her Tuesday, Thursday and Friday evenings, as well as her Saturday mornings, caring for the children of para-professionals who are taking classes through Yakima Valley Community College at Harrison Middle School. According to the Alderwood School District, the classes are being offered through the college in an effort to help para-professionals prepare for the new state assessment test. District officials said by the year 2006 all para-professionals throughout the state will either have to have passed the test or have an Associate of Arts degree. Merry said she took the after school job because she enjoys working with children. So far, Merry said she typically watches three or four children during each of her shifts. She said caring for children ages infant to nine years old can be a challenge, although she finds that the older children can be easier to watch. During the week Merry watches the children for approximately two hours a night, spending three hours with them on Saturdays. Merry said during that time she plays games with the children, allows them to watch movies and every now and then they even head down to the gymnasium to play a little basketball. Merry said although she has enjoyed the job over the course of the last several months, she will have to reapply for it next semester. In the meantime, Merry said she is also interested in taking care of other children when she is not working at the school. She can reached at 837-5121. . Ellie Olmsen can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or e-mail her at eOlmsen@hawkpress.com Ellie Olmsen/Alderwood Daily News Jolene Merry has been spending many of her weeknights and Saturdays caring for children at Harrison Middle School, ensuring they are entertained while their parents take classes being offered through Yakima Valley Community College. Here Merry watches over 3-year-old Irene C. Rangel and her brother Enrique, 1, both of whom are the children of Lucie Rangel, a para-professional"}
{"Id":"1101163905029","Title":"Cold snap hits Valley","Author":"Melissa Browning","Time":"1/5/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"With nightly temperatures dipping well below zero, to a new record low on Jan. 4 of -9 degrees, Lower Valley residents are preparing for cold days and icy roads. This morning as the Alderwood School District bus drivers arrived to work they found that half of the buses wouldn't start. \"The cold weather wreaks havoc on the buses,\" said school district spokesperson Julie Kaplicky. Some of the schools in the district have only 50 percent of the students in the classrooms, she said. She added that parents can expect delays when their children are being dropped off this afternoon. School is planned for Tuesday, but depending on the bus situation, that could change, said Kaplicky. She said the final determination will be made by 5 a.m. tomorrow. After the New Year's Day snow storm, snow shovels, sleds and ice-melt disappeared from the shelves of Ace Hardware in Alderwood. Now, heaters, both electric and kerosene, have been selling like hot cakes, as well as torch kits, heat bulbs and gloves, according to store manager Ed Dean. \"They're buying anything that will look like it will thaw a pipe,\" said Dean. With a variety of heat tapes and small heaters used to thaw pipes available, Dean said those who've had pipes freeze over the past few days have been looking at different ways to get water flowing again at their homes. \"They started coming in on New Year's Eve a little bit,\" said Dean. As the temperatures dropped, more came to the store looking for additional heat sources. \"It's just plain cold,\" he said. In fact it's so cold that the company is having a hard time getting the supply trucks from Yakima started. \"We're sending a truck up just for kerosene and electric heaters,\" said Dean. With expected additional snowfall Tuesday night, Dean said Ace employees want to be prepared for the next wave of expected bad weather. \"We're bringing in more snow shovels and more ice-melt,\" he said. Mark Cook, who records Alderwood's temperatures for the National Weather Service, said Sunday's temperature of -9 degrees shatters the record for Jan. 4 of -2 degrees set in 1924. Alderwood Public Works Superintendent Ken Ott has not had any calls on city pipes freezing. \"I'm not too worried about it right now,\" he said, adding that the city's pipes are buried deep and have a layer of insulation and the weather is supposed to warm up. \"If it breaks and it's our pipe, we're going to take care of it,\" he said. Everything up to and including the water meter is the city's responsibility. Alderwood Fire Department Battalion Chief Adam Dent said that those who bring heaters into their homes for extra warmth need to remember a few simple steps to ensure safety during the cold. \"Most importantly, if you use a heater you need to make sure you keep them a good distance from everything,\" he said. This weekend the Alderwood Fire Department was called to a mattress fire, he said. The fire was out on arrival, but it was determined that the mattress was too close to an electric heater and caught fire. \"Not all heating devices are appropriate for indoor use,\" said Dent. Some are for outdoor use only because they put off toxic fumes and burn oxygen. Dent said people can die from carbon monoxide poisoning. Dent said it's also a good idea to change your furnace filter when it's cold. \"Changing the filter helps them run more efficiently,\" he said. For those with freezing pipes, Dent said, \"Getting under your house with a torch is probably not the best idea. Pipes conduct heat and if hot enough can go into walls and catch them on fire.\" With snow and ice still on many of the roads, Dent encourages caution when driving, but, he said, the majority of the accidents the Alderwood Fire Department has responded to have been on the freeways. \"Those accidents have slowed down because the freeways have cleaned up,\" Dent added. Although today (Monday) continues to be cold, according to a spokesperson at the National Weather Service, the temperatures should be rising over the next few days. After midnight tonight there is a 30 percent chance of snow. It is expected that 2 to 4 inches will accumulate. Temperatures should increase to the 20s, he added. Tuesday night there is a 70 percent chance of more snow, according to the National Weather Service. Wednesday along with snow, the Lower Valley should expect light freezing rain, rain and snow. . Melissa Browning can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or e-mail mbrowning@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101163905264","Title":"Rotary speaker stresses that if people are going to be attracted to Alderwood those living here must take active role","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"1/2/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"Taking an active role in the community of Alderwood is an important part of \"continuing to keep the ball rolling,\" said Alderwood Daybreak Rotarian Bill Flower. Flower served as the club's speaker Wednesday morning, talking about the responsibility Rotary members and other people in the Alderwood community have in coming together and moving forward. \"We're 30 strong, we can do a lot. But we've got to do it,\" Flower told Rotarians. \"All of us here are responsible for the future of Alderwood.\" Flower said the community is surrounded by gems, like the local museum, as well as its many parks and the community center. He said it's things like these that can help attract people to the community, both as residents and business owners. He explained that coming into a community that takes pride in what it has to offer can play a part in making people think they might want to become part of the community. Flower also told fellow Rotarians that he feels the community of Alderwood is in the middle of an economic development opportunity that it needs to take advantage of - the growth of the local wine industry. \"It's happening all around us,\" Flower said, noting the tourist industry could be a boost to Alderwood. He said the community has to start working to attract people, not only to visit Alderwood, but to stay. Flower noted that one of the best gifts given to the community in recent years was the gift of the George property by Don and Karen Seeger. The downtown property is now home to Centennial Square. Tom Seeger and George Greenway were present at the Wednesday meeting, as was City Manager Dave Fonfara, who leaves for Chelan soon to take on a new job there. \"We're all wishing you the best in Chelan,\" Flower told Fonfara, before turning his attention back to the group of Rotarians. He told those in attendance that with Fonfara soon leaving for Chelan, it is important that people in the community talk to members of the city council about the importance of keeping the momentum going started by Fonfara. \"We need to get a city manager who understands we need to keep going,\" Flower said. Ultimately, Flower said he feels that good things are happening throughout the area and that good things can happen in Alderwood, as well. \"I think there's a great hope for Alderwood,\" Flower said. . Ellie Olmsen can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or e-mail her at eOlmsen@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101163905529","Title":"Still no decision made yet by USDA on 'depopulating' two Lower Valley herds","Author":"Melissa Browning","Time":"1/2/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"The decision on whether or not to kill any or all of the animals in two Lower Valley herds, at a dairy which was home to a Holstein that tested positive for bovine spongiform encephalopathy (BSE) and a calf feeding operation where the infected cow's calf was sent, has not been made. But the possibility that the two herds may have to be killed, or depopulated as the federal government is now calling it, still exists. According to Suzan Holl, public affairs specialist for the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, there is an indemnity program that cattle owners can apply for, which if approved, would provide fair market price replacement costs should the United States Department of Agriculture decide that killing the cattle is the best option. Dr. Ron DeHaven, chief veterinarian for the USDA, announced Wednesday that 10 of the 82 cows that crossed the Canadian border into the United States were found on the Mabton dairy. The other 70 cows are still being traced down, but DeHaven believes they are all in Washington state. Holl said she is unsure if the Mabton dairy owner and Alderwood area calf operation owner would be compensated for the time to renew operations, if a severe cut is made into either herd population. The dairy is made up of 4,000 cows and the calf feeding operation has approximately 460 calves. According to Jay Gordon, executive director of the Washington State Dairy Federation, the only model they have for indemnity are for sheep herds that were eliminated in the Northeast due to disease, and cattle that were killed in Texas. Ann Baneville, an independent consultant working with the dairy and beef industries, said the government has a response plan to contain and eradicate potential threats to the industry. She said in Texas when bovine tuberculosis was uncontrollable, rather than targeting the wild animals continuously carrying the disease over the border from Mexico, the USDA found it more prudent to provide the farmer with indemnification and exterminate the herd. \"All of us in the dairy industry that are watching this don't know those answers yet,\" said Gordon. \"He's got employees and he's got a lot of hard work and effort.\" Gordon added that the whole point of indemnity is so the herd can be tested in the national interest. There is no test for BSE that can be done on live animals. The testing requires a portion of the cow's brain for testing, according to the USDA. When Canada found mad cow disease in a single cow in an Alberta herd, more than 1,160 cattle were killed and tested for BSE, according to Dr. Brian Evans, chief veterinary officer for the Canadian Food Inspection Agency. Cows from the herd where the diseased cow lived, where her offspring lived and herds where the infected cow \"co-mingled\" were all destroyed. BSE tests on all of the cows were negative, according to the American Veterinary Medical Association. Although Gordon said the case of BSE was a shock to farmers in Washington, it's not something they haven't been preparing for. \"For the past two or three years we've had a lot of paper preparation,\" said Gordon. \"Washington State, since the foot-in-mouth outbreak in Asia, came up with an emergency preparation plan.\" With the decision of whether or not to depopulate the two Lower Alderwood Valley farms still up in the air, Gordon said he believes the USDA is paying close attention to the international standard and making sure that decision will help in reopening foreign markets. Also not determined if the cattle on the two farms are determined to be a threat is the method of termination. \"Whatever they do determine will be the most humane way by the American Veterinary Medication Association guidelines,\" said Holl. She added that the animals would be euthanized by the USDA, and the USDA would incur the costs. Holl said that if killed the animals would be tested for BSE before they were disposed of. The method of disposal is unknown, but she said they would not enter the meat market. . Melissa Browning can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or e-mail mbrowning@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101163905764","Title":"Check forgers sought by Alderwood police","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"12/31/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"The Alderwood Police Department is looking into seven cases of fraud that occurred at local businesses this holiday season. According to Student Resource Officer Jim Rivard, who is assisting the police department's detective division over the school holiday, all of the information in the case has finally been gathered and sifted through. He said the cases involve three people who were writing forged checks and cashing them. Rivard said the department is in the process of getting arrest warrants for the suspects, who are believed to be associated with each other. He estimates that 1,000 in bad checks were written at local businesses, including Wal-Mart and Rite Aid. The checks were cashed on private checking accounts, he said. Other police jurisdictions are also hoping to clear up fraud cases with the arrest of the suspects. Rivard said bad checks have allegedly been written by the suspects from the Tri-Cities to Alderwood"}
{"Id":"1101163905998","Title":"Mabton School District seeks voter approval for $195,000 levy that will be on Feb. 3 ballot","Author":"Jamie Smart","Time":"12/31/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"MABTON - Saying a proposed maintenance and operations levy is crucial to the education of its students, Mabton School District officials are asking voters to approve a 195,000 levy on Feb. 3. The levy amount offers a reduction in assessed valuation for the voters, while providing much need funds to operate the district, said Kevin Chase, Mabton School District superintendent. He said the new levy, if approved, would total 1.69 per 1,000 of assessed valuation. That would be less than the 1.93 per 1,000 assessment generated from the 2000 levy, he explained. The levy will be used to continue basic services to the district, such as transportation, athletic programs, extracurricular activities, as a well as upkeep of facilities, Chase said. Chase said voters' approval of the levy is necessary in order for the district to receive state equalization money. If the voters pass the levy, the state provides additional money for those districts, such as Mabton, which have a low tax base. \"In Mabton's case, the state will give us 695,778 annually,\" Chase said. \"If we don't pass the levy we can't get the state money and it will go to other school districts,\" he added. \"The state matching money is a very important part of Mabton's budget and is absolutely necessary for maintaining the level of services we provide in many areas,\" he said. Chase said the district is asking that the levy be effective for four years, which he said will guarantee the taxpayers at least a level tax rate for the next four years. \"The rate will likely go lower as evaluations are done on property in the district. We understand the poor state of the economy for the agricultural industry and we want to keep taxes from increasing for at least the next four years by running a four-year levy,\" Chase said. . Jamie Smart can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or you can e-mail her at jSmart@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101163920951","Title":"Young cattleman hopes to grow herd from four to 60","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"12/30/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"Fourteen-year-old Outlook resident Wayne Mandrell just recently used the money he had been saving from livestock sales through FFA and 4-H to start building his own herd. Mandrell said one day he hopes to turn the four head of registered Angus heifers he purchased three months ago into a herd of up to 60 cattle. Mandrell, who grew up in the cattle industry, said the animals are currently housed on five acres of pasture located behind the Lester Road home he shares with his parents, Bill and Gloria. As if purchasing and caring for his own animals isn't enough responsibility for the 14-year-old Alderwood High School student, Mandrell also recently became a junior member of the American Angus Association. Mandrell said he decided to become a member after the person who sold him the registered heifers talked to him about the advantages of being associated with the national organization. \"[He] said it would help me some day,\" Mandrell said. Mandrell and his father, Bill, explained that being a member of the American Angus Association will give the younger Mandrell access to a higher caliber of breeding services, which will help produce higher quality offspring and therefore a higher market price. Mandrell's parents, Bill and Gloria, both agree their son has always shown an interest in being involved in the cattle industry. Over the years the Mandrells had a herd of 50 to 60 head of cattle their children helped them care for. \"Wayne always planned on being a cattleman,\" Gloria said of her son, who is the youngest of four children. \"He always had the interest and the eye for it.\" Mandrell is also a six-year member of 4-H and is in his first year as an FFA member. Mandrell credited the two groups for helping him choose the four heifers he did. Mandrell said he plans on breeding his animals in April 2004 and hopes to be able to sell his own heifers in five or six years. Also joining the American Angus Association are Mark and Renee Nelson of Grandview. The couple just recently became members of the organization. The American Angus Association, with more than 34,000 active adult and junior members, is the largest beef cattle registry association in the world. Its computerized records include detailed information on more than 14 million registered Angus. . Ellie Olmsen can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or e-mail her at eOlmsen@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101163921248","Title":"Holiday season brings rash of burglaries to Grandview","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"12/29/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"GRANDVIEW - The holiday season wasn't quite as happy for several residents and business owners in Grandview. Between Dec. 23 and 28 several burglaries were reported to the Grandview Police Department with items stolen ranging from guns to televisions. Grandview Police Chief Dave Charvet said seeing burglaries during the holiday season is nothing new. \"Everybody is out Christmas shopping,\" Charvet said. Tuesday, Dec. 23, a home in the 300 block of Grandview's East Fourth Street was broken into. Charvet said a small television, VCR and stereo system were stolen from the home. On Dec. 23, Grandview police also received a call reporting an automobile theft. Charvet explained that the car was found and had been borrowed by a family friend. Christmas morning was a busy one for members of the Grandview police force. Between the hours of 1:52 and 3:36 a.m. three different businesses located within a close distance to each other reported being burglarized. Charvet said the owners of the first store, GTM Market in the 100 block of Ash Street, reported that their front door had been broken into and a bag full of cigarettes was found at the back of the store. Blehyl Farm Service in the 100 block of East Wine Country Road was also found with its front door broken in. Charvet said 20 sets of pruning shears were stolen from the local store. The final business in Grandview that was broken into Christmas morning was Anderson Equipment Company in the 600 block of East Wine Country Road. Charvet said the glass door was found broken, but nothing appeared to be missing. Charvet said since all of the businesses were broken into during the same time frame and were all located fairly close together the possibility of the same people being responsible for all three incidents is being looked into. Businesses weren't the only buildings targeted on Christmas day. A home in the 500 block of Grandridge in Grandview was also broken into. Charvet said the television was stolen. He explained that the homeowner came home to find the sliding glass door open, as well as a window. Saturday, Dec. 27, a home in the 300 block of Elm Street in Grandview was burglarized. Charvet said the homeowners came home to find their house had been broken into and three guns had been stolen. Charvet said the guns consisted of two pistols and one shotgun"}
{"Id":"1101163921545","Title":"Forum","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"12/26/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"1-Column Levy support As a former school board member for the Alderwood School District and a long-time farmer in the Alderwood area, I would encourage voters to support the special levy and bond issue on Feb. 3, 2004. It will help to keep taxes low and the quality of our school facilities and programs high. /s/ Alfred Newhouse, Alderwood Racist allegations I was saddened to see the cry of racism in last Friday's edition of the Alderwood Daily News. How disappointing it is to hear there are people who want to divide our community. And if they don't get their way, they stoop to playing the race card. Should Councilmen Torch and Seeger been accused of racism? I don't think so. Let's look at the complaints that were levied against them in last Friday's paper. The first letter was written by Samuel T. Martinez. He accused Torch and Seeger of using the \"official pulpit to espouse their racist and divisive attitude regarding a positive economic development effort, because Hispanics are promoting a Hispanic Chamber of Commerce.\" These two councilmen were not trying to divide our community, they were trying to keep it together. It seems to me that Mr. Martinez is the one wanting to tear it apart. Mr. Martinez went on to say \"Spanish speaking business people in Alderwood want to promote their businesses, as well as promote economic development in our community. It is \"our\" choice how we decide to do it. It is not the choice of racist leaders to tell us how to promote and develop \"our\" business.\" Again, who sounds racist and divisive? I thought that we were one community with diverse ethnic backgrounds. It sounds like Mr. Martinez want to segregate the community. I thought segregation was illegal. He went on to allege that our city council has ignored the downtown businesses by not providing infrastructure for them, because they're Latino owned companies. What a crock! The city is providing the same sewer, water, power, parking, roads and other services to the downtown merchants that they provide to every other business in Alderwood. If Mr. Martinez expects the city to renovate the buildings for him, he's looking for a handout in the wrong place. It is the responsibility of the building owners to update them. Perhaps he should look to them for his economic development. The second letter was written by Carlos Maya III. Mr. Maya also considered Councilmen Torch and Seeger divisive because they didn't agree with having two chambers in town. He wrote, \"I believe that forming a Hispanic Chamber is an answer to Alderwood's Hispanic owned businesses.\" Again, why would he think the answer is dividing our community? I have contacted our Chamber of Commerce and found that they have done many things to reach out to our Hispanic businesses. When Councilman Jennie Angel told our chamber president of her intentions to divide our community, M'Liss Bierlink tried to work with Ms. Angel to keep our business core together. But what did Bengie do? She set up a meeting with several Latino owned businesses here in Alderwood, the president of the Pasco Hispanic Chamber, herself, and invited several members of our Chamber board to attend. Talk about racist and divisive! Ms. Angel and her associate from Pasco informed our Hispanic business owners that they should only promote and do business with other Hispanic people. Racist? Divisive? You tell me. All of the minutes from that meeting are available from our chamber. You don't have to believe me, you can find out for yourself what really happened. As a member of the community, I am sick and tired of hearing this kind of rhetoric from people like Jennie Angel and her cronies who wrote the letters in last Friday's paper. We don't need this in Alderwood. We have enough problems here without Ms. Angel stirring up the beehive. I have been following Bengie's career since she was elected to the city council. She has done nothing but drive a wedge between the cultures of this city. If therre is a racist on the council, she is it. In the interest of our community, she should step down and shut up. If she wants to help the Hispanics, that would be the best thing for her to do. Then we could get down to the business of uniting and involving all the people of Alderwood in bettering the community as a whole. Let's not attack Councilmen Torch and Seeger, let's applaud them. /s/ Brent Cleghorn, Alderwood"}
{"Id":"1101163921779","Title":"Untitled","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"12/24/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"12-24 Letters to editor Bond/levy support I support community education and the upcoming special levy and bond issue as approved by the board of directors of the Alderwood School District. The literature shows a growing enrollment in the district and a need for additional schools. The cost of 1.61 per thousand (of assessed valuation) when these two issues are approved is a good buy to the taxpayer. As a former board member, I encourage Alderwood residents to vote \"yes\" on these two issues. /s/ Don Miller, Alderwood School Christmas project a success The first grade students and their families at Washington Elementary School participated in a night filled with Christmas projects, singing and Santa. It was a great family experience. We would like to thank Wal-Mart for its generous donation that helped make the evening successful. /s/ Doris Matson, first grade teacher, Alderwood Trip a delight This is just a note to express our \"thanks\" to the staff of the Alderwood Daily News, the participating merchants and Dottie Cervantes of the travel agency (for the trip we won in the annual Hawaiian getaway promotion). We have returned from a most delightful sojourn in Hawaii. The weather was magnificent. The accommodations were very comfortable. Our flight over and our return flight were smooth, uncomplicated and on time. Fortune must have been continuing to smile upon us, vis-a-vis, the weather. The much anticipated long lines at the security and inspection stations did not materialize or dampen our enthusiasm in any way. Once again, we both desire to thank all of those nice folks who made it possible with all our hearts. /s/ Cloe and Roger K. Garrison, Alderwood Food, toy drive For the past few years I have been involved in the food basket and toy drive at the Alderwood Fire Department. During that time the caring and generosity shown by the citizens and businesses of Alderwood has been tremendous each year. However, this year has been truly amazing. Nearly every grocery store in town donated food. Many other businesses gave everything from batteries to wrapping paper. We received huge food, gift or cash donations from school children, church organizations and countless individuals. One little boy brought us the contents of his piggy bank. Another little girl brought us her own dolly because she thought another little girl could use it more. All of these acts have shown myself and everyone involved here that we live in a great community, where many place the welfare of others high on their list of priorities. With the help from all of our community members, 50 families were hopefully given a better Christmas than they otherwise might have had. I know this was not the only food and toy drive in town. I can't imagine how much good was done if the other organizations were shown the support that we were. It has been an honor for all of us here at the Alderwood Fire Department to work with you this Christmas season. We want to wish all of our citizens a merry Christmas and a safe new year. We also want to thank all of you for making Alderwood a wonderful community to live and work in. /s/ Bill Harris, Alderwood Fire Department"}
{"Id":"1101163922014","Title":"Untitled","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"12/24/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"1-Column 12-24 Letters to editor Bond/levy support I support community education and the upcoming special levy and bond issue as approved by the board of directors of the Alderwood School District. The literature shows a growing enrollment in the district and a need for additional schools. The cost of 1.61 per thousand (of assessed valuation) when these two issues are approved is a good buy to the taxpayer. As a former board member, I encourage Alderwood residents to vote \"yes\" on these two issues. /s/ Don Miller, Alderwood School Christmas project a success The first grade students and their families at Washington Elementary School participated in a night filled with Christmas projects, singing and Santa. It was a great family experience. We would like to thank Wal-Mart for its generous donation that helped make the evening successful. /s/ Doris Matson, first grade teacher, Alderwood Trip a delight This is just a note to express our \"thanks\" to the staff of the Alderwood Daily News, the participating merchants and Dottie Cervantes of the travel agency (for the trip we won in the annual Hawaiian getaway promotion). We have returned from a most delightful sojourn in Hawaii. The weather was magnificent. The accommodations were very comfortable. Our flight over and our return flight were smooth, uncomplicated and on time. Fortune must have been continuing to smile upon us, vis-a-vis, the weather. The much anticipated long lines at the security and inspection stations did not materialize or dampen our enthusiasm in any way. Once again, we both desire to thank all of those nice folks who made it possible with all our hearts. /s/ Cloe and Roger K. Garrison, Alderwood Food, toy drive For the past few years I have been involved in the food basket and toy drive at the Alderwood Fire Department. During that time the caring and generosity shown by the citizens and businesses of Alderwood has been tremendous each year. However, this year has been truly amazing. Nearly every grocery store in town donated food. Many other businesses gave everything from batteries to wrapping paper. We received huge food, gift or cash donations from school children, church organizations and countless individuals. One little boy brought us the contents of his piggy bank. Another little girl brought us her own dolly because she thought another little girl could use it more. All of these acts have shown myself and everyone involved here that we live in a great community, where many place the welfare of others high on their list of priorities. With the help from all of our community members, 50 families were hopefully given a better Christmas than they otherwise might have had. I know this was not the only food and toy drive in town. I can't imagine how much good was done if the other organizations were shown the support that we were. It has been an honor for all of us here at the Alderwood Fire Department to work with you this Christmas season. We want to wish all of our citizens a merry Christmas and a safe new year. We also want to thank all of you for making Alderwood a wonderful community to live and work in. /s/ Bill Harris, Alderwood Fire Department"}
{"Id":"1101163922264","Title":"Untitled","Author":"Bob Story","Time":"12/24/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"4-calendar rev. updated 11/04/03 calendar Mondays Alderwood City Council meets Mondays at 7 p.m. at the Alderwood Law and Justice Center, Homer Street. Mondays Al-Anon meetings are held Mondays 7:30 to 8:30 p.m. at Alderwood Community Hospital in the main lobby. MONDAYS Alderwood TOPS (Take Off Pounds Sensibly) Chapter meets 6:30 to 7:30 p.m. at Alderwood Senior Citizen Center, 1400 Federal Way. Call 839-4992 for details. Mondays Alderwood Noon Rotary meets at noon at Snipes Mountain Brewery and Restaurant, Yakima Valley Highway. Third Mondays Lower Valley Christian Women meet at The Barn Restaurant, Wine Country Road, Prosser, at 11:30 a.m. Call 894-4610 for information. Tuesdays KOSMOS - over 50 singles group meets 6 to 8 p.m. For meeting place call Carol Cronin at 836-2921 or Bob Van Horn at 837-8485. Tuesdays Compassionate Connection Support Group meets at 3 p.m. at Sunny Spot Restaurant, Yakima Valley Highway. Call 837-2339 or 837-5406 for more information. Tuesdays Community Service Food Bank, at the Seventh-day Adventist Church, East Lincoln Avenue. Winter hours are 9 to 11:30 a.m. first Tuesday House committee of the VFW Sunny View Post #3482 meets at 6 p.m. at the post home, 615 North Ave. Second Tuesday Horizon Quilters Unlimited of Yakima Valley meets at 9:30 a.m. through noon at Immanuel Lutheran Church, 300 S. Euclid and 3rd, Grandview. For more information call 837-7069. Second Tuesday VFW Sunny View Post #3482 and Ladies Auxiliary meet at 7 p.m. at the post home, 615 North Ave. Second and fourth Tuesday Mabton Food Bank open from 10 a.m. to noon for pick-up or donations of food items at Mabton V.F.W. Hall across from Mabton High School. Call 894-4273 to arrange donations. Third Tuesdays American Veterans Post #95 meets at 132 Division, Grandview, at 7 p.m. Call 882-1058 for more information. Fourth Tuesdays The Alderwood Masonic Lodge No. 138, F.&A.M., meets at 7:30 p.m. Call Bill Flower, 837-3505 for details. Fourth Tuesdays Alderwood Garden Club meets at 1:00 p.m. Call 837-4138 for location. Wednesdays Alderwood Daybreak Rotary meets at 6:45 a.m. at Alderwood Community Hospital. Wednesdays Moms in Touch International, a non-denominational group that prays for children and schools, Call 837-3459 for day and location. First andthird Wednesdays Alderwood Chapter #134 Order of Eastern Star, meets at 8 p.m. at the Masonic Temple, Sixth and Harrison. Second Wednesdays Harrison Middle School Booster Club meets at 7:15 p.m. at the middle school library. Second Wednesdays Mabton VFW Post #10384 Barnard R. Christiansen Post meets at 7:30 p.m. at the Mabton post home, B. Street. Second andfourth Wednesdays Golden Agers potluck dinners and meetings at noon at the Alderwood Senior Citizen Center, 1400 Federal Way. Call 837-5572 for details. All persons age 55 and older are welcome. Second Wednesday Credit Professionals International meets every second and fourth Wednesday at 7 a.m. at Alderwood Community Hospital. Call Joyce Wells, 882-2248 for details. Fourth Wednesdays AmVets Post #3733 meets at SunnyView VFW Post #3482, 615 North Avenue. 7 p.m. Wednesdays Alderwood Kiwanis Club meets at 6:45 a.m. at Sunny Spot Restaurant, 1850, Yakima Valley Highway. Thursdays Cribbage Club meets every Thursday at 7 p.m. at the Eagles Lodge, South Hill Road. For more information, contact Linda Johnson, 837-5636. Thursdays TOPS #Wa. 1232 Grandview meets at 8 a.m. through 10 a.m. at Immanuel Lutheran Church, 300 S. Euclid, Grandview. Call 882-5525 for more information. Second Thursdays The Lower Valley Fibromyalgia Support Group, a Lower Valley Hospice Education Outreach Program, meets at Alderwood United Methodist Church, Ninth Street and E. Edison Avenue, 6-7:30 p.m., Edison Avenue entrance. Call 837-4818 for details. Second Thursdays Grandview VFW Post #6929 meets at 7 p.m. at the post home, 132 Division St., Grandview. SECOND THURSDAY Alderwood Ministerial Association meets second Thursdays of each month. For more information call 837-2734. (not meeting in June, July, or August or the first Thursday of April.) Second and fourth Thursdays Regular meeting dates for the Alderwood Lions Clubs. Meetings are held at Alderwood Library 6:30 p.m. Call 839-2574 for membership information. Fourth Thursdays Alderwood School Board meets the last Thursday of each month at 7 p.m. at the Denny Blaine Building, Custer Avenue. Lower Valley Bridge Club Meets Thursdays at 10:30 a.m., and Mondays at 7:30 p.m. at Alderwood Banner Bank, East Edison Avenue. Last Thursday Lower Valley Diabetic Support Group, at Alderwood Community Health and Information Center, Ninth Street and Franklin Avenue, 7 p.m. No charge for attending. Call 837-1624 for details. Second Fridays Sunny Valley Grange #870 meets at 8 p.m. at the grange hall, Factory Road. A potluck and social is held on the fourth Friday of each month at 6:30 p.m. Fridays Consumer Credit Counseling every Friday in Alderwood at Banner Bank of Washington. Call 1-800-273-6897 for an appointment. FRIDAYS Adolescent pregnancy and parenting program in Alderwood at Planned Parenthood office. Call 837-5005 for more information. FRIDAYS Lower Valley Toastmasters meets at 6:30 a.m. at the Alderwood Community Hospital administrative conference room. Call Joanna at 837-5833 for more information. mondays and wednesdays and fridays Ministerial Food Bank at 8:30-11:30 a.m. at 8th and Decater in Alderwood. Call 837-6754 for details"}
{"Id":"1101163922529","Title":"Santa letters arrive at North Pole...Alaska","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"12/24/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"The magic of Christmas can often be summed up in one moment. For some children, it's the excitement and wonderment that fills their eyes when they receive a letter back from Santa Claus. Every year thousands of children across the United States and other parts of the world sit down to carefully pen their thoughts and wishes in the form of a letter to Santa Claus, often reminding the jolly old elf that they have been good throughout the year. The Yakima Valley is no different than any other part of the world. Here, children still sit down and write out their thoughts to Santa, often including a wish list and holiday greetings. However, what happens between the letter being written and the envelope being dropped off at the local post office and that special moment when the child receives their response is almost magical in and of itself. Post offices from Bickleton to Granger and Mabton send their mail, including sentiments addressed to Santa Claus, to be sorted at the Yakima facility. According to Cheryl Summers, a clerk at the Yakima Post Office, there is an employee in Yakima who traditionally responds to letters that come through the facility. However, not every letter is answered at that level. Other letters continue the journey north to Alaska, where several post offices receive and respond to the specially addressed letters. Dwight Grimmer, postmaster of the Mabton Post Office, said one of the final resting places for letters addressed to Santa Claus is Wrangel, Alaska. Grimmer, who used to work at the post office in Wrangel, said every year he worked there the facility would receive at least one large mailbag filled with letters addressed to Santa Claus. \"I was surprised we received as many as we did,\" Grimmer said. He said Wrangel started receiving letters addressed to Santa when the mail system became automated. He explained many of the addresses on the Santa letters include the highest zip code people can think of and since Wrangel's zip code, 99929, is the highest zip code in the United States, the letters automatically get routed in that direction. However, the letters that arrived in Wrangel weren't necessarily replied to. Instead, Grimmer said, the letters were given to the local newspaper and many were published. One of the busiest destinations for Santa letters and other Christmas sentiments is North Pole, Alaska. According to the branch manager in North Pole, Donna Matthews, last year the mail facility received 70,000 letters. \"They come in from all over the U.S.,\" Matthews said, noting that letters from Europe are also received. She explained that some of the letters are addressed to the North Pole, while others carry no postage and simply have the words Santa or Noel scrawled across them in children's handwriting. \"They barcode them to us,\" Matthews said. Once the letters arrive at the North Pole, a myriad of volunteers work from the day after Thanksgiving through the Christmas holiday to ensure that each of the letters with a return address are answered. Matthews said the letters are handed over to the North Pole Badgers Lions Club, with many of them being answered by club members, as well as people involved in other charitable organizations. Matthews said many people in the community get involved with the letter writing project, including students at North Pole Middle School. Matthews said in order to ensure that the Lions Club and the Santa's Mailbag project continue every year, the organization holds fund-raisers from January through December. She explained that the funds are then used to purchase the stationary and postage needed to ensure the letters get back to the children who are eagerly awaiting a response. Matthews said the North Pole branch of the Fairbanks, Alaska post office was started in 1954, and since then many letters addressed to Santa Claus have been received at the facility. She explained that Santa letters arrive at the branch office throughout the year, with the Santa's Mailbag project collecting them and answering them when the holiday season arrives. . Ellie Olmsen can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or e-mail her at eOlmsen@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101163922764","Title":"Story Time","Author":"Bob Story","Time":"12/24/2003","Tag":null,"Content":" Dear Santa, once again, I've procrastinated and haven't yet got off my annual letter to you in the mail. Realizing that it won't reach you by Christmas Day, I'm hoping that you are a regular reader of the Alderwood Daily News and will see it here. Santa, I wish I could tell you I had a big list of things I'd like you to bring me this Christmas. But in all reality, there's really not much I want or need. I'm hoping for a pair of new bowling shoes, but you shouldn't worry about that. I think my wife, Kelly, picked up on a few pre-Christmas hints I dropped about the shoes and will be taking care of that wish. Since there's really nothing I want you to bring me this Christmas, Santa, maybe you could take care of a few people on my gift list. Any help you can give in filling my wish list would be appreciated. Here goes: ? Dr. Aaron Bones-an 80 percent approval rating on February's bond and levy issues. Should be a cinch since Alderwood residents won't be offered such a great deal for years to come. ? Dave Fonfara-smooth sailing in Chelan. And, elected officials in that resort community who don't like micro-managing the day-to-day affairs of the city. ? Steve Urrutia-a varsity boys basketball schedule that allows him to attend all of his daughter's games. ? Roy Anciso-an appropriate thank you from the community for the 20 or so years he served Alderwood, showing a sense of fair play for all who live here. ? Errol Brown-ditto! ? Lance Den Boer-a red shirt. Fifth year seniors can pack a mean punch. ? Tom Lathen-a Thursday night three-bagger. ? Jeff Bender-next year a finish that's one step above where he placed in this year's Central Washington PGA Pro-Am Series points standings. ? Scott Galbraith-at least one round in the 60's, please! ? George Greenway-the insight to realize that people don't need to attend city council meetings to have an opinion on what the city should spend its money on, just as people don't need to travel to Iraq to have an opinion on whether or not American troops should be there. ? Dean Wagenaar-a referee who's not afraid to blow his whistle in the closing moments of a game. ? Greg Schlieve-100 people who want to purchase a bronze plaque at Alderwood's War Veterans Memorial. They're a great deal for those who want to memorialize the veterans in their families. ? Marshall Doak-the savvy to take on the lead role in landing the new county jail in Alderwood, after county commissioners have it drilled into them that there is too much opposition for the facility to be built at the fairgrounds in Yakima. ? John Torch-a state grant that would give every merchant in town enough money to build a carbon copy replica of the train depot he had renovated. Heck, even enough money to put up a white picket fence around each new business. ? Rep. Dan Newhouse-a second year in Olympia that reflects the statesmanship and dignity he displayed there in 2003, making all 15th District voters proud that he was their choice. ? Sen. Jim Honeyford-the strength to continue fighting for and representing the business and farming interests of the Lower Alderwood Valley. ? Rex Luthor-a dinner invitation from the mayor of Zillah. My favorite uncle lays out a mean party spread. ? Ivan White-a copy of my checkbook register, showing that nearly all of my money is spent in Alderwood. ? Peyton Manning-a five-touchdown performance at Houston this Sunday. I need it to have a shot at winning this year's Fantasy League. ? Tom Seeger-a gavel and a black robe. He may as well look the part. ? Jennie Angel-a steel fortress. I do believe she's under attack. ? Washington State Migrant Council-the understanding that they're not going to please everyone in town with the way they operate the new community center. They should just strive to make the center as accessible to as many people as possible. ? To all my golfing buddies-the generosity to give me an additional two strokes every round. My game's getting worse and I need the extra help. If I've left anybody off my wish list that's deserving, Santa, could you please extend my apologies. By the same token, could you send an apology to those who might not have wanted to make my list. Signing off until next year, Bobby P.S. The milk and cookies can be found where I always leave them . Bob Story,can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or e-mail him at bstory@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101163925232","Title":"Forum","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"12/24/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"Bond/levy support I support community education and the upcoming special levy and bond issue as approved by the board of directors of the Alderwood School District. The literature shows a growing enrollment in the district and a need for additional schools. The cost of 1.61 per thousand (of assessed valuation) when these two issues are approved is a good buy to the taxpayer. As a former board member, I encourage Alderwood residents to vote \"yes\" on these two issues. /s/ Don Miller, Alderwood School Christmas project a success The first grade students and their families at Washington Elementary School participated in a night filled with Christmas projects, singing and Santa. It was a great family experience. We would like to thank Wal-Mart for its generous donation that helped make the evening successful. /s/ Doris Matson, first grade teacher, Alderwood Trip a delight This is just a note to express our \"thanks\" to the staff of the Alderwood Daily News, the participating merchants and Dottie Cervantes of the travel agency (for the trip we won in the annual Hawaiian getaway promotion). We have returned from a most delightful sojourn in Hawaii. The weather was magnificent. The accommodations were very comfortable. Our flight over and our return flight were smooth, uncomplicated and on time. Fortune must have been continuing to smile upon us, vis-a-vis, the weather. The much anticipated long lines at the security and inspection stations did not materialize or dampen our enthusiasm in any way. Once again, we both desire to thank all of those nice folks who made it possible with all our hearts. /s/ Cloe and Roger K. Garrison, Alderwood Food, toy drive For the past few years I have been involved in the food basket and toy drive at the Alderwood Fire Department. During that time the caring and generosity shown by the citizens and businesses of Alderwood has been tremendous each year. However, this year has been truly amazing. Nearly every grocery store in town donated food. Many other businesses gave everything from batteries to wrapping paper. We received huge food, gift or cash donations from school children, church organizations and countless individuals. One little boy brought us the contents of his piggy bank. Another little girl brought us her own dolly because she thought another little girl could use it more. All of these acts have shown myself and everyone involved here that we live in a great community, where many place the welfare of others high on their list of priorities. With the help from all of our community members, 50 families were hopefully given a better Christmas than they otherwise might have had. I know this was not the only food and toy drive in town. I can't imagine how much good was done if the other organizations were shown the support that we were. It has been an honor for all of us here at the Alderwood Fire Department to work with you this Christmas season. We want to wish all of our citizens a merry Christmas and a safe new year. We also want to thank all of you for making Alderwood a wonderful community to live and work in. /s/ Bill Harris, Alderwood Fire Department"}
{"Id":"1101163938951","Title":"Local men on duty this holiday","Author":"Jamie Smart","Time":"12/24/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"While Lower Valley families are preparing for Christmas morning celebrations, Sgt. Alex Navarro is already back on duty in Mosul, Iraq. Navarro, a U.S. Army communications specialist, is one of the thousands of American men and women serving in the war zone and other outposts around the world. He is also one of several Lower Valley young people, who for a brief moment, came home on leave from the war front. But Navarro, like many of the local young servicemen, says he is OK with heading back to the war front. He considers himself one of the lucky one. \"I got to be home to celebrate Christmas with my family, even if it was two weeks early,\" he said. He, along with his wife Elizabeth, just completed a two- week leave, coming home for the first time in years to spent Christmas with his parents, Mr. and Mrs. Alex Navarro of Alderwood. The Navarros' also have another son serving in the military this holiday. Their son Rick is a tank commander at Fort Stewart in Georgia and served along side his brother in Kuwait during the earlier stages of the Iraqi War. While on leave, the young soldier visited his family and cousins, and took out time to talk about his job with area school students. \"I spoke to students in Grandview and Alderwood classrooms telling them that part of my job in Iraq is to help rebuild the country,\" he said. Navarro, who just celebrated his 31st birthday, said he also stressed the importance of education to the students. \"One of the things we're rebuilding in Iraq is the schools,\" he said. Navarro, who one day hopes to become a teacher, said for the time being he is committed to serving his country as a solider. \"We have a lot of hard work ahead of us in Iraq, especially now that we captured Saddam Hussein,\" he said. Navarro, who enlisted following high school graduation, is attached to the 101st Airborne 2nd Infantry currently stationed near Mosul, Iraq. Navarro said Mosul is located about a six hours drive north of Baghdad. As the communications specialist for his unit, he is in charge of eight servicemen who handle the group's communications, from military movements to wireless services used by the soldiers to keep them in touch with their families. Navarro is just one of several Lower Valley natives who returned home for a short break from their military duties. Much to her joy and that of her family, Alderwood's Marty Clemmens' son-in-law, Geoff Black, was home on leave earlier this month. \"We felt very fortunate that he got to come home even for just a few weeks,\" she said. While home, Black was invited to participate in the SunnyView VFW Post's Pearl Harbor Day Remembrance program held Dec. 7, in downtown Alderwood. \"It was a real honor to visit with the veterans of other wars,\" he said. Black said he also felt honored to have met Pearl Harbor survivor Herb Fairbanks of Granger. Black, who is attached to the Army's 125th Forward Support Battalion, is now back on duty in Baghdad. Alderwood's Rick and Mary Melendrez are excited to have their soldier sons home for the holidays. Sgt. Angel Melendrez, who is scheduled to arrive home on Christmas Eve, will leave for active duty as a tank engineer with the 81st Brigade on Dec. 27. Son Chris, a first lieutenant with the 1/5 Cavalry at Fort Hood, Texas, will be home until Dec. 29, before reporting back for overseas duty, said his mother. \"I'm so happy to have them home for Christmas,\" she said. \"I'm making sure we all have a family photo taken as a part of our celebration,\" she added. She said the Melendrez brothers will both be overseas by February, after undergoing training at Fort June during the next month. Also home for the Christmas holiday is Second Lieutenant Crysti Greenway, 30, of Granger. While she hasn't yet served in Iraq, Greenway said she is anxious to do her part. \"As an officer, I'm proud to be able serve with those men and women who volunteered to fight for our flag and country,\" she said. Greenway, who just six months ago decided to re-enlist in the military, will be a member of the 18th Airborne, which has a major part of its troops stationed in Iraq. She said there is a high probability she will eventually rotate in to Iraq. \"I've requested that posting,\" said the Washington State University history major. The daughter of Mary and Terry Pearson of Granger, she comes from a long line of military personnel. Her parents and her grandparents all served in the U.S. military. Her mother, Mary, served in the Persian Gulf. Greenway first enlisted in the Navy following high school graduation. She worked her way up to Petty Officer Second Class after six years, before deciding to become a civilian again. But upon enrolling at Washington State University, she joined the ROTC. She also served for three years in the National Guard's 790th Chemical Company, stationed at Grandview. \"At the urging of 1st Sgt. Jack Emler, I decided to enlist in the Army,\" Greenway said. Greenway said she has more training to complete before she will be fully prepared to head overseas. \"I just finished my transportation corps officer basic at Fort Eustis, Virginia,\" she said. Greenway said the transportation corps is responsible for getting food and military supplies to the \"war fighter.\" At the end of her two-week leave, Greenway will be training at Fort Benning, Georgia in day and night jumping. Later, she will be stationed at Fort Bragg, N.C. with the 18th Airborne. \"I think it surprised my family when I decided to go back into the services,\" she said. \"But it's the best job in the world,\" she said. In the meantime, a young Army recruit, Jeremy Snyder of Alderwood, is preparing to leave for boot camp in South Carolina. \"I'm going to be training as a light wheel mechanic,\" said the young man, who is currently employed at Alderwood's Bi-Mart store. Snyder, 24, said he won't leave for boot camp until Jan 15. \"So I'll get to have Christmas with my family this year,\" he said. Even though he knows there is a chance he may end up overseas serving with other army troops, he said he is not worried. \"At least I know what I signed up for and what I'm getting myself into,\" he said. . Jamie Smart can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or you can e-mail her at jSmart@hawkpress.com Jamie Smart/Alderwood Daily News Sgt. Alex Navarro (R), pictured with his father, Alderwood businessman Alex Navarro, recently completed two short weeks of leave before being sent back to Iraq. The young Army sergeant is stationed near Mosul, north of Baghdad, with the 101st Airborne. Jamie Smart/Alderwood Daily News Pearl Harbor survivor Herb Fairbanks of Granger wishes Geoff Black well as the young soldier heads back to active duty with American troops stationed in Iraq. Lt. Chris Melendrez Sgt. Angel Melendrez"}
{"Id":"1101163939201","Title":"Luther sets world record-again","Author":"John Panni","Time":"12/24/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"Outlook's Joe Luther once again made his mark on the weightlifting world on perhaps the brightest stage in the world-Las Vegas. Luther was one of 722 lifters from 39 states and 13 different countries to take part in the Twinlab World Bench Press and Deadlift Championship. The world lifting meeting was held Dec. 9-14 at the Riviera Hotel in Las Vegas. The meet featured more than 80 hours of competition, which will be aired on ESPN in the near future. \"It was a pretty good meet,\" said Luther. \"It was enormous.\" Luther set a world record in the junior men (165 lbs.) division, bench pressing 458.3 lbs. on his third attempt, besting his previous world record mark by 1-1/2 lbs. Luther weighed in at 160 lbs. for the world meet. Luther has come a long way from the first time he competed at the world event when he was 19 years old. Luther benched 419 lbs. his first time at the world meet. \"To be honest,\" said Luther. \"I didn't think I was going to lift anything worthwhile this time.\" The Outlook strongman qualified for the world competition during a meet held earlier this year in Portland, Ore. This year marks the first time in three years that Luther has competed at the world meet. This is the largest meet Luther has ever competed at. In the past, Luther said, he has competed at meets where lifters haven't been tested for steroids. Luther said he wanted to see how he fared at a meet against lifters that tested steroid and drug free. \"I wanted to see how I could compete,\" said Luther. Compete is just what Luther did, even after struggling early on. Luther failed to make his first lift, nearly dropping 429-1/2 lbs. \"My form was off,\" said Luther. \"My head wasn't into it.\" Luther got back to form for his second lift, having an easy time with 451-3/4 lbs. \"I felt better with this lift,\" said Luther. Luther then hit his world record making lift on his third attempt. Luther had set his previous world bench press record, one of many he has owned over the years, during a meet eight months ago in the Tri-Cities. In the junior men's division, Luther was clearly the dominating lifter out of a field of eight participants. The lifter who took runner-up honors to Luther was a distant second, clearing only 348 lbs. Luther's lifts were good enough to win the open men's division, as well. The competition was a bit stiffer in the open men's division. The second place lifter in the open men's division was from Norway. The Norway lifter cleared 436 lbs. Luther said because of the number of lifters at the meet, it took a long time to finish the competition. Luther was one of the first participants to do his lifts, competing on Thursday of the world event. After competing on Thursday, Luther had to wait until Sunday to find out how he fared. Luther's performance in Las Vegas was perhaps even more notable because of an injury he sustained two months before the world meet. While working out a couple of months before worlds, Luther pulled a pectoral muscle in his chest. While preparing for worlds, Luther said he was scared to lift heavy weights out of fear of further injuring his chest muscle and having to pull out of the Las Vegas meet. Besides the size of the meet, Luther said he was surprised at the variety of competitors. \"Everybody seemed real nice,\" said Luther. \"The guys are so huge. They are polite.\" Luther was also amazed at the level of performance by some of the participants. In particular, Luther was impressed with Seattle Seahawks football team strength coach Bill Gillespie. Gillespie competed in two divisions and on his opening day missed all three of his lifts at 661 lbs. Gillespie came charging back his second day of competition and cleared 661, 668 and 706 lbs. \"I couldn't believe it,\" said Luther. \"I had never seen anyone miss all of his lifts on the first day and come back like that.\" Gillespie's mark was a world record in the 308-lb. weight class. \"He was pretty impressive,\" said Luther. Competing at worlds like he did showed Luther a few things about himself. Luther said that many of the weightlifters live the profession too much. Luther said that many of the lifters own gyms or have jobs revolving around their career. Luther said he was glad to see he could compete with lifters who take the profession that seriously, since he is only able to dedicate a part of his time because of other commitments. \"It makes me feel good that I can do construction (for a living) and go to a world competition and actually place first in open men and junior men,\" said Luther. Luther is awaiting his invitation to the Arnold Classic competition in March. \"That is supposed to be huge,\" said Luther. The Arnold Classic is a massive body building meet that actor and current California Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger holds every year. \"It is supposed to be unreal,\" said Luther. . John Panni can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or email him at mPanni@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101163939436","Title":"Knowledge Bowl league new this year at AHS","Author":"Jamie Smart","Time":"12/23/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"Alderwood High School has long participated in the KYVE-TV's Apple Bowl, a kind of knowledge pop quiz bowl. But this year, the school will also have a team competing in a different type of athletic event for the mind. Alderwood High School will compete in the brand new Educational Service District 105 Knowledge Bowl league, according to Dan Thomas, AHS team coach. Thomas, who has coached an informal AHS team for the past several years, said this will be the first time the AHS team will compete in league play, facing 15 teams from 11 school districts. \"In the past, our team has competed with schools outside our region, but this year we'll have our own league within the ESD 105,\" he said. The league held its first meet Dec. 11, at East Valley with the AHS team placing second in total points, Thomas said. \"We won two oral rounds, so you could say in \"direct\" competition, we are undefeated,\" he said. Thomas explained the Knowledge Bowl contest consists of a timed oral round of 60 questions and a timed written round of 50 questions. The team with the highest score is the winner. Alderwood High School will host its first home meet after the Christmas break, Thomas said. The meet will be held Jan. 12 at 3:30 p.m. Thomas said the high school students will compete in a number of rounds, answering chLofferging questions covering science, astronomy, literature, math, current events, history and a wide array of subject matters. Thomas' four-person team includes seniors Mitch Lathen, Josh Barr, Amber Gonzalez and Stacey Gorski, as well as junior Amy Kilian as a team alternate. The rounds encourage the students to use speed and intuition to answer questions, Thomas said. Thomas said league play will include a third meet at Highland High School in February. A regional meet will be held in Yakima in late February. The winners from the Regional meet will advance to a State bowl in March. . Jamie Smart can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or you can e-mail her at jSmart@hawkpress.com Jamie Smart/Alderwood Daily News Speed and intuition are key to the success of the Alderwood High School Knowledge Bowl team. The four-person team includes (L-R) Josh Barr, Amber Gonzalez, Stacey Gorski and Mitch Lathen"}
{"Id":"1101163939670","Title":"Local dance students offer jazzy version of Christmas classic","Author":"Jamie Smart","Time":"12/23/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"It's not your grandmother's version of the Nutcracker. The Martin School of Dance's version featured some of the classical music from time-honored holiday musical, but with a decidedly jazzed-up twist. The more than 50 student dancers presented The Nutcracker All Jazzed Up at the Alderwood High School Auditorium this past Saturday night to a near sold-out crowd. The story of Clara and her magical nutcracker included all the charm of the more famous version of The Nutcracker, with stunning costumes and delightful sets created by Dolores Howe and Kristina Platsman, all under the direction of Linda Martin"}
{"Id":"1101163939920","Title":"City could be without library services if annexation vote fails","Author":"John Panni","Time":"12/22/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"It was revealed during Wednesday night's Alderwood City Council budget workshop the city could very well be without library services if voters fail to pass an annexation measure next year. With the city facing a 365,290 operating deficit in 2004, City Manager Dave Fonfara has been exploring options to bring before the Council to reduce that amount. One of the options has the Alderwood public library becoming part of the Yakima Valley Regional Library System. The Alderwood library would become part of the regional library system if residents approved an annexation measure in March 2004. If approved, residents would pay 50 per 1,000 of assessed property value directly to the regional library system to operate the Alderwood facility. The levy would generate 235,000 in funding for the regional library system. Currently, Alderwood residents pay nothing directly for the operation of the city library. Rather, money for operation of the library comes from city taxes. Fonfara told Council last night the city would save in the neighborhood of 140,000 if the regional library system took over the Alderwood facility. But last night's budget workshop revealed some confusion about funding for the Alderwood library in 2004 and where the facility would stand in the future if voters failed to pass the annexation measure. No official funding decisions by the Council will be made until the end of the budget workshops next week. Monica Weyhe, director of the Yakima Valley Regional Library System, was in attendance at last night's budget workshop. Weyhe told the Council the regional system would take over complete operation of the Alderwood library in 2005 if the annexation measure passes. In regards to the 2004 budget, Weyhe provided Council with some statistics regarding the Alderwood facility. \"We consider it the regional library for the Lower Valley,\" said Weyhe. Alderwood has the second most used library facility in Yakima County, behind Yakima. In the last 12 months a total of 1,140 people have registered for a library card in Alderwood. A total of 77 percent of the 8,447 card holders at the facility live in Alderwood. Six percent of the remaining card holders live in Outlook with another 5 percent living in each community of Grandview and Mabton. The Alderwood library also has card holders who live in the Upper Valley, said Weyhe. In 2002, people at the Alderwood library checked out 70,484 items, ranging from books to videos, up 19 percent from 2001. Alderwood also has the newest computer system in the county. On average at least five computers are in use at the Alderwood library every hour. The total operating budget in 2004 for the Alderwood library is 369,825, said Weyhe. The majority of those costs are for personnel, 145,630 for what equates to just under four full-time employees. There is also 98,000 reserved for material purchases in 2004. The regional library system subsidizes the Alderwood facility. Weyhe said regional library directors have agreed to hold the fee for the city at its 2003 level of 115,500. The city budgets around 140,000 for the operation of the library, but the 115,000 goes directly to the regional system. The remaining money is used for maintenance and operation of the Alderwood facility. Weyhe said the regional library has agreed to reduce the city's amount for funding in 2004 by 50,000, but only if the annexation measure passes in March. City Finance Director Chad Stotz, though, explained to the Council he has already removed the 50,000 from the library's allocation and put it in the current expense fund. Fonfara clarified for the Council he is recommending the city pull the 50,000 from the library regardless of what happens with the annexation vote. Councilwoman Jennie Angel was concerned about whether the library could operate if the city took away the funding. Weyhe said she couldn't say what will happen with less funding. The regional system would be bound to live up to its contract with the city for 2004, but after that, with reduced funding, the future of the library could be in question. \"If the vote fails that means the citizens have voted to not tax themselves for library services,\" said Weyhe. Weyhe said if the citizens and the Council opt to not support funding for the library she doesn't see how it could afford to operate after 2005. Mayor Pro-tem George Greenway wanted additional information on how much money the library system would gain from Alderwood residents if the annexation is approved. Greenway wanted to make sure that Alderwood residents weren't subsidizing library services for other communities. Weyhe said the library doesn't allocate its funding in that matter. \"We don't dedicate funds,\" said Weyhe. \"Our funding is county wide.\" Greenway asked for city staff to provide a report on how much money the library would generate from residents living in Alderwood and the school district boundaries. Alderwood resident Jeff Matson couldn't understand why the Council wants to burden the taxpayers with funding the library directly when the current system is working. \"I am having a hard time understanding why it is a good system for taxpayers,\" said Matson. \"It is a cost increase of 100,000 to the local taxpayers and you guys could do it for half the amount.\" . John Panni can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or email him at mPanni@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101163940154","Title":"Former Alderwoodr volunteers to help troubled teens","Author":"Melissa Browning","Time":"12/22/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"SPOKANE - Former Alderwood resident Nancy (Drysdale) Moore is carving out her own niche in the Spokane area, helping troubled teens who have been arrested in the Spokane area. A graduate of Alderwood High School, Moore, the daughter of local resident Wade Drysdale, started volunteering for the Neighborhood Accountability Board nearly three years ago. The board is similar to the Community Accountability Board in Yakima County. \"I have three grandchildren that are in their teens now and I was interested in keeping current in what they face and what they're involved with,\" said the 54-year-old woman. She said there are more youths in the juvenile justice system than ever before and she hopes the accountability board alternative will make a positive impact in their lives, turning them from repeating their crime. As a volunteer, Moore meets with youths and their parent or guardian and talks with them about the incident. She said it is important to her to hear from the youths their version of what happened. She also likes to find out the youths likes and dislikes; struggles and successes in life. After reviewing the case, Moore draws up a contract of consequences and reviews it with the youth, who can be between the ages of 8 and 17, and their parents. She said they all have to agree on the contract and sign it. As a part of a consequence contract, Moore said she may have a student who's a gifted artist make an educational poster about teen alcohol use or drug abuse, if that is why they were sentenced to the Neighborhood Accountability Board. Also common punishments, besides writing a letter to the victim, is completing hours of community service, counseling sessions and anger management classes. Moore also monitors the youths' progress though their sentencing. Volunteering two nights a month to the board, Moore said she will work with an average of 48 youths every year. Moore said the youths who are sentenced to working with the volunteers on the Neighborhood Accountability Board commit a wide variety of crimes, including driving without a license, vandalism, theft, minor assaults and drug and alcohol use, which she said are common. As a member of one of three Neighbor Accountability Boards in Spokane, she is one of 50 volunteers working with youths. . Melissa Browning can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or e-mail mbrowning@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101163941010","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"12/28/2001","Tag":null,"Content":"Good morning Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 20 17 9 45 32 47 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: For Brutus is an honourable man; So are they all, all honourable men. William Shakespeare (1564 - 1616), \"Julius Caesar\", Act 3 scene 2"}
{"Id":"1101163941011","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"01/04/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"Good folk of Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 18 10 10 24 14 32 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: The name of peace is sweet, and the thing itself is beneficial, but there is a great difference between peace and servitude. Peace is freedom in tranquillity, servitude is the worst of all evils, to be resisted not only by war, but even by death. Cicero (106 BC - 43 BC"}
{"Id":"1101163941012","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"01/11/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"Good morning Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 5 31 25 19 13 29 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: Laziness is nothing more than the habit of resting before you get tired. Jules Renard (1864 - 1910"}
{"Id":"1101163941013","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"01/18/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"My fellow residents of Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 43 6 22 8 7 27 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: Each body has its art... Gwendolyn Brooks (1917"}
{"Id":"1101163941014","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"01/25/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"Hello Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 19 26 40 48 46 38 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: The trouble with fighting for human freedom is that one spends most of one's time defending scoundrels. For it is against scoundrels that oppressive laws are first aimed, and oppression must be stopped at the beginning if it is to be stopped at all. H. L. Mencken (1880 - 1956"}
{"Id":"1101163941015","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"02/01/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"Good folk of Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 9 26 40 37 44 27 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: I'm against a homogenized society, because I want the cream to rise. Robert Frost (1874 - 1963"}
{"Id":"1101163941016","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"02/08/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"Hope you are well Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 21 28 44 2 34 18 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: Death is the enemy. I spent 10 years of my life singlemindedly studying, practicing, fighting hand to hand in close quarters to defeat the enemy, to send him back bloodied and humble and I am not going to roll over and surrender. Diane Frolov and Andrew Schneider, Northern Exposure, First Snow, 1993"}
{"Id":"1101163941017","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"02/15/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"Hope you are well Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 17 24 38 16 42 30 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: To obtain a man's opinion of you, make him mad. Oliver Wendell Holmes (1809 - 1894"}
{"Id":"1101163941018","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"02/22/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"Greetings Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 32 5 14 33 35 4 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: I'm a mother with two small children, so I don't take as much crap as I used to. Pamela Anderson (1967"}
{"Id":"1101163941019","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"03/01/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"Greetings Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 33 20 3 36 24 24 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: The test of courage comes when we are in the minority. The test of tolerance comes when we are in the majority. Ralph W. Sockman"}
{"Id":"1101163941020","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"03/08/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"My fellow residents of Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 25 3 18 32 3 8 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: I am not one of those who in expressing opinions confine themselves to facts. Mark Twain (1835 - 1910), Wearing White Clothes speech, 1907"}
{"Id":"1101163941021","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"03/15/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"Good folk of Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 16 0 47 32 35 31 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: A flatterer is a friend who is your inferior, or pretends to be so. Aristotle (384 BC - 322 BC"}
{"Id":"1101163941022","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"03/22/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"Greetings Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 34 24 31 26 42 6 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: If a man is destined to drown, he will drown even in a spoonful of water. Yiddish Proverb"}
{"Id":"1101163941023","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"03/29/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"Hello Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 8 45 12 49 3 36 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: I'm not sure I want popular opinion on my side -- I've noticed those with the most opinions often have the fewest facts. Bethania McKenstry"}
{"Id":"1101163941024","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"04/05/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"Hope you are well Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 15 42 37 17 22 8 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: We must give lengthy deliberation to what has to be decided once and for all. Publilius Syrus ( 100 BC"}
{"Id":"1101163941025","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"04/12/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"Hope you are well Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 44 5 34 17 2 41 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: I'm a bit of an abstract figure that people can project their fantasies on; it's pretty much what we all are, otherwise we wouldn't be stars, and people wouldn't be interested. But people project things on you that have nothing to do with what you really are, or they see a little something and then exaggerate it. And you can't really control that. Salma Hayek"}
{"Id":"1101163941026","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"04/19/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"Greetings Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 18 18 3 21 39 14 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: Natural abilities are like natural plants; they need pruning by study. Sir Francis Bacon (1561 - 1626"}
{"Id":"1101163941027","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"04/26/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"Good folk of Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 12 40 30 45 28 20 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: The man who reads nothing at all is better educated than the man who reads nothing but newspapers. Thomas Jefferson (1743 - 1826"}
{"Id":"1101163941028","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"05/03/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"My fellow residents of Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 15 10 7 29 11 43 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: There is nothing wrong with America that cannot be cured by what is right with America. Bill Clinton (1946"}
{"Id":"1101163941029","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"05/10/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"Hello Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 18 48 16 4 49 17 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: Silence is one of the great arts of conversation, as allowed by Cicero himself, who says, 'there is not only an art, but an eloquence in it.' A well bred woman may easily and effectually promote the most useful and elegant conversation without speaking a word. The modes of speech are scarcely more variable than the modes of silence. Tom Blair"}
{"Id":"1101163941030","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"05/17/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"Good folk of Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 28 10 39 33 16 47 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: We don't receive wisdom; we must discover it for ourselves after a journey that no one can take for us or spare us. Marcel Proust (1871 - 1922"}
{"Id":"1101163941031","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"05/24/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"Good folk of Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 5 49 47 0 30 18 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: I stand by all the misstatements that I've made. Dan Quayle (1947 - ), to Sam Donaldson, 8/17/89"}
{"Id":"1101163941032","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"05/31/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"Hello Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 37 2 21 35 15 39 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: He had learned over the years that poor people did not feel so poor when allowed to give occasionally. Lawana Blackwell, The Courtship of the Vicar's Daughter, 1998"}
{"Id":"1101163941033","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"06/07/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"My fellow residents of Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 15 8 22 49 32 3 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: Any ordinary favor we do for someone or any compassionate reaching out may seem to be going nowhere at first, but may be planting a seed we can't see right now. Sometimes we need to just do the best we can and then trust in an unfolding we can't design or ordain. Sharon Salzberg, O Magazine, The Power of Intention, January 2004"}
{"Id":"1101163941034","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"06/14/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"Greetings Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 12 5 10 27 34 47 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: Accustom yourself continually to make many acts of love, for they enkindle and melt the soul. Saint Teresa of Avila (1515 - 1582"}
{"Id":"1101163941035","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"06/21/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"My fellow residents of Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 39 2 7 38 38 20 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: I believe in equality for everyone, except reporters and photographers. Mahatma Gandhi (1869 - 1948"}
{"Id":"1101163941036","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"06/28/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"Good morning Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 18 29 1 7 20 13 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: Patience is the companion of wisdom. Saint Augustine (354 AD - 430 AD"}
{"Id":"1101163941037","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"07/05/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"Greetings Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 46 39 8 43 44 39 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: The scars of others should teach us caution. Saint Jerome (374 AD - 419 AD), Letter"}
{"Id":"1101163941038","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"07/12/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"Good folk of Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 43 30 36 7 43 23 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: Better be quarrelling than lonesome. Irish Proverb"}
{"Id":"1101163941039","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"07/19/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"Hope you are well Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 38 20 17 12 30 36 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: There is measure in all things. Horace (65 BC - 8 BC), Satires"}
{"Id":"1101163941040","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"07/26/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"My fellow residents of Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 39 13 36 40 7 45 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: Do not mind anything that anyone tells you about anyone else. Judge everyone and everything for yourself. Henry James (1843 - 1916"}
{"Id":"1101163941041","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"08/02/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"My fellow residents of Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 21 20 42 46 45 18 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: There is danger from all men. The only maxim of a free government ought to be to trust no man living with power to endanger the public liberty. John Adams (1735 - 1826), Journal, 1772"}
{"Id":"1101163941042","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"08/09/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"Good morning Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 6 49 49 43 17 23 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: The older I grow the more I distrust the familiar doctrine that age brings wisdom. H. L. Mencken (1880 - 1956"}
{"Id":"1101163941043","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"08/16/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"Hope you are well Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 38 20 8 22 42 36 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: It is easier to get forgiveness than permission. Stuart's Law of Retroaction"}
{"Id":"1101163941044","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"08/23/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"Greetings Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 27 14 14 49 50 19 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: Love will enter cloaked in friendship's name. Ovid (43 BC - 17 AD"}
{"Id":"1101163941045","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"08/30/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"Good morning Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 37 35 21 50 32 31 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: If you are distressed by anything external, the pain is not due to the thing itself, but to your estimate of it; and this you have the power to revoke at any moment. Marcus Aurelius Antoninus (121 AD - 180 AD"}
{"Id":"1101163941046","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"09/06/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"Hope you are well Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 35 28 12 11 20 42 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: The whole problem can be stated quite simply by asking, 'Is there a meaning to music?' My answer would be, 'Yes.' And 'Can you state in so many words what the meaning is?' My answer to that would be, 'No.' Aaron Copland (1900 - 1990"}
{"Id":"1101163941047","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"09/13/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"My fellow residents of Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 31 25 33 7 21 5 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: Think about a woman. Doesn't know you're thinking about her. Doesn't care you're thinking about her. Makes you think about her even more. Martin Sage and Sybil Adelman, Northern Exposure, The Bumpy Road to Love, 1991"}
{"Id":"1101163941048","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"09/20/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"Good folk of Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 27 36 22 45 11 18 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: If you ever need a helping hand, you'll find one at the end of your arm. Yiddish Proverb"}
{"Id":"1101163941049","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"09/27/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"Hope you are well Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 10 35 36 33 42 29 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: Be more splendid, more extraordinary. Use every moment to fill yourself up. Oprah Winfrey (1954 - ), O Magazine, February 2003"}
{"Id":"1101163941050","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"10/04/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"My fellow residents of Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 27 25 47 37 21 9 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: I am open to receive with every breath I breathe. Michael Sun"}
{"Id":"1101163941051","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"10/11/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"Hello Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 3 48 26 6 42 18 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: Well-timed silence hath more eloquence than speech. Martin Fraquhar Tupper"}
{"Id":"1101163941052","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"10/18/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"Greetings Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 4 46 41 41 24 13 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: There is no reciprocity. Men love women, women love children, children love hamsters. Alice Thomas Ellis"}
{"Id":"1101163941053","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"10/25/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"Good folk of Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 10 19 25 31 34 13 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: Do not, for one repulse, forego the purpose that you resolved to effect. William Shakespeare (1564 - 1616), 'The Tempest"}
{"Id":"1101163941054","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"11/01/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"Good morning Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 34 29 24 47 5 11 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: There is surely a piece of divinity in us, something that was before the elements, and owes no homage unto the sun. Sir Thomas Browne (1605 - 1682), 1642"}
{"Id":"1101163941055","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"11/08/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"My fellow residents of Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 21 46 16 41 15 6 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: My only concern was to get home after a hard day's work. Rosa Parks (1913 - 2005"}
{"Id":"1101163941056","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"11/15/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"Good folk of Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 37 17 36 28 50 28 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: I make the most of all that comes, And the least of all that goes. Sara Teasdale (1884 - 1933"}
{"Id":"1101163941057","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"11/22/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"Good folk of Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 31 37 39 49 41 45 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: The first condition of immortality is death. Stanislaw J. Lec (1909 - 1966), \"Unkempt Thoughts"}
{"Id":"1101163941058","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"11/29/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"Hope you are well Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 21 1 19 43 13 13 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: Time as he grows old teaches all things. Aeschylus (525 BC - 456 BC), Prometheus Bound"}
{"Id":"1101163941059","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"12/06/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"Hello Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 43 33 3 20 30 21 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: The really frightening thing about middle age is that you know you'll grow out of it. Doris Day (1924"}
{"Id":"1101163941060","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"12/13/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"Good morning Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 3 19 31 34 14 16 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: One's first step in wisdom is to question everything - and one's last is to come to terms with everything. Georg Christoph Lichtenberg (1742 - 1799"}
{"Id":"1101163941061","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"12/20/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"Good morning Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 49 35 31 21 1 45 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: All our progress is an unfolding, like a vegetable bud. You have first an instinct, then an opinion, then a knowledge as the plant has root, bud, and fruit. Trust the instinct to the end, though you can render no reason. Ralph Waldo Emerson (1803 - 1882"}
{"Id":"1101163941062","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"12/27/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"Good folk of Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 41 0 16 8 18 47 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: I am Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the end, the first and the last. Bible, Revelation xxii. 13"}
{"Id":"1101163941063","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"01/03/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"Good morning Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 19 22 11 33 21 39 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: All I have seen teaches me to trust the Creator for all I have not seen. Ralph Waldo Emerson (1803 - 1882"}
{"Id":"1101163941064","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"01/10/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"Good morning Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 39 29 3 22 23 33 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: Living hell is the best revenge. Adrienne E. Gusoff"}
{"Id":"1101163941065","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"01/17/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"Hope you are well Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 30 27 10 14 36 1 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: The man who acquires the ability to take full possession of his own mind may take possession of anything else to which he is justly entitled. Andrew Carnegie (1835 - 1919"}
{"Id":"1101163941066","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"01/24/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"My fellow residents of Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 9 0 17 43 37 18 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: A diamond with a flaw is worth more than a pebble without imperfections. Chinese Proverb"}
{"Id":"1101163941067","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"01/31/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"Hello Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 15 3 21 50 2 46 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: Being a woman is a terribly difficult task since it consists principally in dealing with men. Joseph Conrad (1857 - 1924"}
{"Id":"1101163941068","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"02/07/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"Good morning Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 3 20 0 23 38 33 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: Many that live deserve death. And some die that deserve life. Can you give it to them? Then be not too eager to deal out death in the name of justice, fearing for your own safety. Even the wise cannot see all ends. J. R. R. Tolkien (1892 - 1973), The Lord Of the Rings, Book Four, Chapter One"}
{"Id":"1101163941069","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"02/14/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"Good folk of Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 36 30 39 44 13 21 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: There are people who strictly deprive themselves of each and every eatable, drinkable, and smokable which has in any way acquired a shady reputation. They pay this price for health. And health is all they get for it. How strange it is. It is like paying out your whole fortune for a cow that has gone dry. Mark Twain (1835 - 1910"}
{"Id":"1101163941070","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"02/21/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"Hello Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 5 50 7 18 44 2 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: Procrastination is the art of keeping up with yesterday. Don Marquis (1878 - 1937"}
{"Id":"1101163941071","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"02/28/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"Good folk of Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 50 3 44 39 28 28 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: When a man says he approves of something in principle, it means he hasn't the slightest intention of putting it into practice. Otto von Bismarck (1815 - 1898"}
{"Id":"1101163941072","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"03/06/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"Hello Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 31 38 5 13 14 11 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: After all it is those who have a deep and real inner life who are best able to deal with the irritating details of outer life. Evelyn Underhill"}
{"Id":"1101163941073","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"03/13/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"My fellow residents of Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 42 21 0 34 29 7 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: My whole career can be summed up with 'Ignorance is bliss.' When you do not know better, you do not really worry about failing. Jeff Foxworthy"}
{"Id":"1101163941074","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"03/20/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"Hello Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 48 16 18 6 42 14 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: George Washington had a vision for this country. Was it three days of uninterrupted shopping? Jeff Melvoin, Northern Exposure, Bolt from the Blue, 1994"}
{"Id":"1101163941075","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"03/27/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"Good folk of Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 47 10 2 18 33 15 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: The greatest minds are capable of the greatest vices as well as of the greatest virtues. Rene Descartes (1596 - 1650), 'Le Discours de la Methode,' 1637"}
{"Id":"1101163941076","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"04/03/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"Greetings Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 46 2 49 11 28 1 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: Go and wake up your luck. Persian Proverb"}
{"Id":"1101163941077","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"04/10/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"Good morning Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 30 38 16 7 23 43 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: When things are at their worst I find something always happens. W. Somerset Maugham (1874 - 1965), 'Of Human Bondage', 1915"}
{"Id":"1101163941078","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"04/17/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"Greetings Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 27 26 41 22 46 12 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: My loathings are simple: stupidity, oppression, crime, cruelty, soft music. Vladimir Nabokov (1899 - 1977"}
{"Id":"1101163941079","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"04/24/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"Greetings Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 49 17 0 5 23 41 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: My mother drew a distinction between achievement and success. She said that 'achievement is the knowledge that you have studied and worked hard and done the best that is in you. Success is being praised by others, and that's nice, too, but not as important or satisfying. Always aim for achievement and forget about success.' Helen Hayes (1900 - 1993"}
{"Id":"1101163941080","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"05/01/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"Greetings Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 12 22 31 12 15 3 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: You know what charm is: a way of getting the answer yes without having asked any clear question. Albert Camus (1913 - 1960), La Chute (The Fall),1956"}
{"Id":"1101163941081","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"05/08/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"Greetings Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 44 45 7 18 10 14 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: Please write again soon. Though my own life is filled with activity, letters encourage momentary escape into others lives and I come back to my own with greater contentment. Elizabeth Forsythe Hailey, 'A Woman of Independent Means"}
{"Id":"1101163941082","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"05/15/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"Hello Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 34 19 43 33 14 6 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: Every mile is two in winter. George Herbert (1593 - 1633"}
{"Id":"1101163941083","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"05/22/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"Hope you are well Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 29 12 4 1 30 17 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: We all know that art is not the truth, art is a lie that makes us realize the truth. Pablo Picasso (1881 - 1973"}
{"Id":"1101163941084","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"05/29/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"Hope you are well Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 27 16 23 3 2 33 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: Sometimes you feel other people's pain worse than your own. We're armored against our own troubles. We can't afford to give in to despair. Then you see someone else struggling, and it breaks your... heart. Sean Stewart, Perfect Circle, 2004"}
{"Id":"1101163941085","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"06/05/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"Hello Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 29 6 10 32 26 7 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: Let me have men about me that are fat, Sleek-headed men, and such as sleep o' nights: Yond Cassius has a lean and hungry look; He thinks too much: such men are dangerous. William Shakespeare (1564 - 1616), \"Julius Caesar\", Act 1 scene 2"}
{"Id":"1101163941086","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"06/12/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"Good folk of Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 48 29 23 6 14 43 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: Underlying the whole scheme of civilization is the confidence men have in each other, confidence in their integrity, confidence in their honesty, confidence in their future. Bourke Cockran"}
{"Id":"1101163941087","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"06/19/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"Good folk of Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 35 5 15 33 49 19 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: Let each man exercise the art he knows. Aristophanes (450 BC - 388 BC), Wasps, 422 B.C"}
{"Id":"1101163941088","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"06/26/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"My fellow residents of Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 12 27 35 7 50 1 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: The trust I have is in mine innocence, and therefore am I bold and resolute. William Shakespeare (1564 - 1616"}
{"Id":"1101163941089","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"07/03/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"My fellow residents of Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 7 22 38 2 33 33 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: I do nothing but go about persuading you all, old and young alike, not to take thought for your persons or your properties, but and chiefly to care about the greatest improvement of the soul. I tell you that virtue is not given by money, but that from virtue comes money and every other good of man, public as well as private. This is my teaching, and if this is the doctrine which corrupts the youth, I am a mischievous person. Socrates (469 BC - 399 BC), quoted by Plato, 'The Death of Socrates"}
{"Id":"1101163941090","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"07/10/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"Good morning Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 13 17 27 38 49 30 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: The first duty of a revolutionary is to get away with it. Abbie Hoffman (1936 - 1989"}
{"Id":"1101163941091","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"07/17/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"Greetings Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 50 44 17 9 15 15 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: Hold a book in your hand and you're a pilgrim at the gates of a new city. Anne Michaels, Fugitive Pieces"}
{"Id":"1101163941092","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"07/24/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"Hope you are well Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 13 47 9 29 34 46 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: They wanted facts. Facts! They demanded facts from him, as if facts could explain anything. Joseph Conrad (1857 - 1924"}
{"Id":"1101163941093","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"07/31/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"Hope you are well Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 14 42 14 24 47 25 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: Give not over thy soul to sorrow; and afflict not thyself in thy own counsel. Gladness of heart is the life of man and the joyfulness of man is length of days. Ecclesiastes"}
{"Id":"1101163941094","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"08/07/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"Good morning Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 10 13 29 21 49 45 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: Conscience and reputation are two things. Conscience is due to yourself, reputation to your neighbour. Saint Augustine (354 AD - 430 AD"}
{"Id":"1101163941095","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"08/14/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"Greetings Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 43 29 20 41 3 28 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: I define comfort as self-acceptance. When we finally learn that self-care begins and ends with ourselves, we no longer demand sustenance and happiness from others. Jennifer Louden"}
{"Id":"1101163941096","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"08/21/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"Good folk of Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 12 40 34 47 5 28 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: If you don't know what to do with many of the papers piled on your desk, stick a dozen colleagues' initials on 'em, and pass them along. When in doubt, route. Malcolm Forbes (1919 - 1990"}
{"Id":"1101163941097","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"08/28/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"Hope you are well Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 17 10 50 43 10 47 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: No man loves life like him that's growing old. Sophocles (496 BC - 406 BC), Acrisius"}
{"Id":"1101163941098","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"09/04/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"My fellow residents of Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 36 35 8 50 26 24 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: Realize deeply that the present moment is all you ever have. Eckhart Tolle"}
{"Id":"1101163941099","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"09/11/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"Good morning Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 27 13 18 28 6 11 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: Give me the children until they are seven and anyone may have them afterwards. St. Francis Xavier (1506 - 1552"}
{"Id":"1101163941100","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"09/18/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"My fellow residents of Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 22 44 41 31 38 36 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: Two men look out through the same bars: One sees the mud and one the stars. Frederick Langbridge (1849 - 1923"}
{"Id":"1101163941101","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"09/25/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"Hello Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 16 5 45 22 44 44 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: Words calculated to catch everyone may catch no one. Adlai E. Stevenson Jr. (1900 - 1965), speech to Democratic National Convention, Chicago, Illinois, July 21, 1952"}
{"Id":"1101163941102","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"10/02/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"Good folk of Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 45 36 36 37 44 20 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: If you neglect to recharge a battery, it dies. And if you run full speed ahead without stopping for water, you lose momentum to finish the race. Oprah Winfrey (1954 - ), O Magazine, April 2003"}
{"Id":"1101163941103","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"10/09/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"Good folk of Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 24 24 27 5 15 24 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: Life only demands from you the strength you possess. Only one feat is possible - not to have run away. Dag Hammarskjold (1905 - 1961"}
{"Id":"1101163941104","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"10/16/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"Good morning Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 29 20 16 20 29 38 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: We most often go astray on a well trodden and much frequented road. Seneca (5 BC - 65 AD"}
{"Id":"1101163941105","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"10/23/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"My fellow residents of Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 44 38 29 7 11 25 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: Challenge is a dragon with a gift in its mouthTame the dragon and the gift is yours. Noela Evans"}
{"Id":"1101163941106","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"10/30/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"Good morning Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 3 40 34 18 27 21 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: If we don't succeed, we run the risk of failure. Anonymous, often attributed to Dan Quayle"}
{"Id":"1101163941107","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"11/06/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"Hope you are well Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 33 41 16 9 36 26 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: The pursuit of happiness is a most ridiculous phrase; if you pursue happiness you'll never find it. C. P. Snow (1905 - 1980"}
{"Id":"1101163941108","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"11/13/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"Greetings Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 1 41 46 21 11 14 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: I know that you believe that you understood what you think I said, but I am not sure you realize that what you heard is not what I meant. Robert McCloskey, State Department spokesman (attributed"}
{"Id":"1101163941109","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"11/20/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"Good morning Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 48 35 37 46 2 38 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: You despise books; you whose lives are absorbed in the vanities of ambition, the pursuit of pleasure or indolence; but remember that all the known world, excepting only savage nations, is governed by books. Voltaire (1694 - 1778"}
{"Id":"1101163941110","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"11/27/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"My fellow residents of Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 2 39 14 11 46 9 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: Where I am, I don't know, I'll never know, in the silence you don't know, you must go on, I can't go on, I'll go on. Samuel Beckett (1906 - 1989), The Unnamable (1959) page 418"}
{"Id":"1101163941111","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"12/04/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"My fellow residents of Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 27 37 20 8 37 26 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: Never take the advice of someone who has not had your kind of trouble. Sidney J. Harris"}
{"Id":"1101163941112","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"12/11/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"Hello Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 31 1 10 15 40 38 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: Learn to get in touch with the silence within yourself and know that everything in this life has a purpose. Elisabeth Kubler-Ross"}
{"Id":"1101163941113","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"12/18/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"My fellow residents of Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 14 50 25 17 12 4 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: I am free of all prejudice. I hate everyone equally. W. C. Fields (1880 - 1946"}
{"Id":"1101163941114","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"12/25/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"Good folk of Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 45 12 28 33 16 45 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: Its the friends you can call up at four a.m. that matter. Marlene Dietrich (1901 - 1992"}
{"Id":"1101163941115","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"01/01/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"My fellow residents of Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 12 9 7 23 50 29 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: All great change in America begins at the dinner table. Ronald Reagan (1911 - 2004"}
{"Id":"1101163941116","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"01/08/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Hope you are well Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 45 16 9 45 14 33 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: Do not spit in the well - you may be thirsty by and by. Russian Proverb"}
{"Id":"1101163941117","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"01/15/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Good folk of Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 22 20 19 46 18 2 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: Reminds me of my safari in Africa. Somebody forgot the corkscrew and for several days we had to live on nothing but food and water. W. C. Fields (1880 - 1946"}
{"Id":"1101163941118","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"01/22/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Hello Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 43 42 43 40 37 49 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: Who will guard the guards themselves? (quis custodiet ipsos custodes?) Juvenal (55 AD - 127 AD), Satires"}
{"Id":"1101163941119","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"01/29/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Good morning Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 5 28 5 47 24 36 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: All things are difficult before they are easy. Dr. Thomas Fuller (1654 - 1734), Gnomologia, 1732"}
{"Id":"1101163941120","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"02/05/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Good folk of Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 18 16 8 43 10 35 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: Idleness and lack of occupation tend - nay are dragged - towards evil. Hippocrates (460 BC - 377 BC), Decorum"}
{"Id":"1101163941121","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"02/12/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Hope you are well Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 13 24 47 4 37 9 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: The direction in which education starts a man will determine his future life. Plato (427 BC - 347 BC), The Republic"}
{"Id":"1101163941122","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"02/19/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Good folk of Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 2 1 31 26 15 50 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: Cowards are cruel, but the brave Love mercy, and delight to save. John Gay (1685 - 1732"}
{"Id":"1101163941123","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"02/26/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Good folk of Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 23 34 50 23 48 10 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: The speed of the boss is the speed of the team. Lee Iacocca (1924"}
{"Id":"1101163941124","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"03/05/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Hope you are well Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 9 34 6 48 28 8 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: Don't live in a town where there are no doctors. Jewish Proverb"}
{"Id":"1101163941125","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"03/12/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Greetings Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 49 50 8 30 17 24 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: I never forget a face, but in your case I'll be glad to make an exception. Groucho Marx (1890 - 1977"}
{"Id":"1101163941126","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"03/19/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Hope you are well Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 41 34 20 39 39 38 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: She wanted something to happen - something, anything: she did not know what. Kate Chopin"}
{"Id":"1101163941127","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"03/26/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Hello Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 48 20 18 23 15 16 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: If you watch a game, it's fun. If you play at it, it's recreation. If you work at it, it's golf. Bob Hope (1903 - 2003"}
{"Id":"1101163941128","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"04/02/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Hope you are well Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 9 13 15 12 2 45 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: Beware of all enterprises that require new clothes. Henry David Thoreau (1817 - 1862), Walden"}
{"Id":"1101163941129","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"04/09/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Good folk of Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 16 27 31 2 6 24 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: I have taken all knowledge to be my province. Sir Francis Bacon (1561 - 1626"}
{"Id":"1101163941130","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"04/16/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Greetings Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 26 35 40 43 8 41 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: Children are the only form of immortality that we can be sure of. Peter Ustinov (1921 - 2004"}
{"Id":"1101163941131","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"04/23/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Hello Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 39 40 45 23 31 14 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: During the Second World War, the Germans took four years to build the Atlantic Wall. On four beaches it held up the Allies for about an hour; at Omaha it held up the U.S. for less than one day. The Atlantic Wall must therefore be regarded as one of the greatest blunders in military history. Stephen Ambrose (1936 - 2002), D-Day, page 577"}
{"Id":"1101163941132","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"04/30/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Good morning Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 0 34 15 12 14 47 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: Don't live in a town where there are no doctors. Jewish Proverb"}
{"Id":"1101163941133","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"05/07/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Hello Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 21 19 42 7 47 19 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: Keeping your body healthy is an expression of gratitude to the whole cosmos - the trees, the clouds, everything. Thich Nhat Hanh"}
{"Id":"1101163941134","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"05/14/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Greetings Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 26 11 20 47 19 13 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: Don't bother just to be better than your contemporaries or predecessors. Try to be better than yourself. William Faulkner (1897 - 1962"}
{"Id":"1101163941135","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"05/21/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Good folk of Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 44 30 11 24 5 3 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: One should always play fairly when one has the winning cards. Oscar Wilde (1854 - 1900"}
{"Id":"1101163941136","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"05/28/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Good morning Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 42 21 37 13 13 17 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: A weak man has doubts before a decision, a strong man has them afterwards. Karl Kraus (1874 - 1936"}
{"Id":"1101163941137","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"06/04/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Good folk of Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 5 34 32 16 17 44 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: Do not be wise in words - be wise in deeds. Jewish Proverb"}
{"Id":"1101163941138","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"06/11/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Hello Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 44 36 7 25 14 25 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: I must study politics and war that my sons may have liberty to study mathematics and philosophy. My sons ought to study mathematics and philosophy, geography, natural history, naval architecture, navigation, commerce, and agriculture, in order to give their children a right to study painting, poetry, music, architecture, statuary, tapestry, and porcelain. John Adams (1735 - 1826"}
{"Id":"1101163941139","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"06/18/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Hope you are well Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 31 26 43 43 30 49 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: Nothing is permanent in this wicked world - not even our troubles. Charlie Chaplin (1889 - 1977), O Magazine, October 2002"}
{"Id":"1101163941140","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"06/25/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Hello Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 30 50 16 28 46 23 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: Man is born a predestined idealist, for he is born to act. To act is to affirm the worth of an end, and to persist in affirming the worth of an end is to make and ideal. Oliver Wendell Holmes (1809 - 1894"}
{"Id":"1101163941141","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"07/02/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Hello Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 22 15 18 2 26 3 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: Let me tell you the secret that has led me to my goal. My strength lies solely in my tenacity. Louis Pasteur (1822 - 1895"}
{"Id":"1101163941142","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"07/09/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Good morning Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 42 13 41 1 23 16 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: Out of the frying pan into the fire. Quintus Septimius Tertullianus (160 AD - 230 AD), De Carne Christi"}
{"Id":"1101163941143","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"07/16/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Good morning Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 48 21 20 45 47 5 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: A boy can learn a lot from a dog: obedience, loyalty, and the importance of turning around three times before lying down. Robert Benchley (1889 - 1945"}
{"Id":"1101163941144","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"07/23/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Greetings Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 0 40 3 17 12 14 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: People who say you're just as old as you feel are all wrong, fortunately. Russell Baker (1925"}
{"Id":"1101163941145","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"07/30/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Good morning Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 4 25 14 31 47 3 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: Life is a moderately good play with a badly written third act. Truman Capote (1924 - 1984"}
{"Id":"1101163941146","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"08/06/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"My fellow residents of Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 16 47 27 5 33 25 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: Be not angry that you cannot make others as you wish them to be, since you cannot make yourself as you wish to be. Thomas a Kempis (1380 - 1471), Imitation of Christ"}
{"Id":"1101163941147","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"08/13/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Good morning Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 4 48 29 32 50 16 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: We always like those who admire us; we do not always like those whom we admire. Francois de La Rochefoucauld (1613 - 1680"}
{"Id":"1101163941148","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"08/20/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Good folk of Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 43 45 38 45 46 23 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: Everyone wants to be Cary Grant. Even I want to be Cary Grant. Cary Grant (1904 - 1986"}
{"Id":"1101163941149","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"08/27/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Hope you are well Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 16 33 30 2 41 50 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: To be able to fill leisure intelligently is the last product of civilization, and at present very few people have reached this level. Bertrand Russell (1872 - 1970), Conquest of Happiness (1930) ch. 14"}
{"Id":"1101163941150","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"09/03/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Good folk of Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 4 34 48 34 10 3 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: Watch out for the fellow who talks about putting things in order! Putting things in order always means getting other people under your control. Denis Diderot (1713 - 1784), Supplement to Bougainville's 'Voyage,' 1796"}
{"Id":"1101163941151","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"09/10/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Good morning Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 23 7 41 44 35 24 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: No matter how rich you become, how famous or powerful, when you die the size of your funeral will still pretty much depend on the weather. Michael Pritchard"}
{"Id":"1101163941152","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"09/17/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Good folk of Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 41 23 27 20 14 17 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: If you would not step into the harlot's house, do not go by the harlot's door. Thomas Secker"}
{"Id":"1101163941153","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"09/24/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Hope you are well Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 32 3 3 45 28 9 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: Be extremely subtle, even to the point of formlessness. Be extremely mysterious, even to the point of soundlessness. Thereby you can be the director of the opponent's fate. Sun-tzu ( 400 BC), The Art of War. Emptiness and Fullness"}
{"Id":"1101163941154","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"10/01/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Greetings Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 19 48 12 36 49 12 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: To love what you do and feel that it matters - how could anything be more fun? Katharine Graham"}
{"Id":"1101163941155","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"10/08/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Greetings Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 47 10 2 3 29 24 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: Dying is a very dull, dreary affair. And my advice to you is to have nothing whatever to do with it. W. Somerset Maugham (1874 - 1965"}
{"Id":"1101163941156","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"10/15/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Hello Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 49 10 47 41 26 42 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: It seems to me that people have vast potential. Most people can do extraordinary things if they have the confidence or take the risks. Yet most people don't. They sit in front of the telly and treat life as if it goes on forever. Philip Adams"}
{"Id":"1101163941157","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"10/22/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Good morning Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 49 26 2 23 14 16 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: There are two ways of spreading light: to be the candle or the mirror that reflects it. Edith Wharton (1862 - 1937), Vesalius in Zante"}
{"Id":"1101163941158","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"10/29/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Good folk of Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 19 48 2 23 7 20 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: I have never let my schooling interfere with my education. Mark Twain (1835 - 1910"}
{"Id":"1101163941159","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"11/05/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Greetings Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 28 12 24 31 20 32 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: If I were two-faced, would I be wearing this one? Abraham Lincoln (1809 - 1865"}
{"Id":"1101163941160","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"11/12/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Hello Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 10 4 48 40 7 28 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: We are drawn to our television sets each April the way we are drawn to the scene of an accident. Vincent Canby, on the Academy Awards"}
{"Id":"1101163941161","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"11/19/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Greetings Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 31 39 26 21 49 43 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: If you don't want anyone to know, don't do it. Chinese Proverb"}
{"Id":"1101163941162","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"11/26/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Good morning Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 1 36 46 37 38 49 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: Not everything that can be counted counts, and not everything that counts can be counted. Albert Einstein (1879 - 1955), (attributed"}
{"Id":"1101163941163","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"12/03/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Hope you are well Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 22 43 23 36 31 10 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: Military intelligence is a contradiction in terms. Groucho Marx (1890 - 1977"}
{"Id":"1101163941164","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"12/10/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"My fellow residents of Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 40 39 10 40 10 3 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: Victorious warriors win first and then go to war, while defeated warriors go to war first and then seek to win. Sun-tzu ( 400 BC), The Art of War. Strategic Assessments"}
{"Id":"1101163941165","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"12/17/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Hope you are well Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 10 23 2 42 46 36 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: The greatest minds are capable of the greatest vices as well as of the greatest virtues. Rene Descartes (1596 - 1650), 'Le Discours de la Methode,' 1637"}
{"Id":"1101163941166","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"12/24/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Greetings Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 15 9 38 8 28 46 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: You can't deny laughter; when it comes, it plops down in your favorite chair and stays as long as it wants. Stephen King (1947 - ), \"Hearts in Atlantis"}
{"Id":"1101163941167","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"12/31/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Hope you are well Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 19 47 12 36 12 44 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: Conscience is God's presence in man. Emanuel Swedenborg (1688 - 1772"}
{"Id":"1101163941168","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"01/07/2005","Tag":null,"Content":"Greetings Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 33 40 6 35 9 10 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: A ship in port is safe, but that's not what ships are built for. Grace Murray Hopper (1906 - 1992"}
{"Id":"1101163941169","Title":"Alderwood Weekly Lucky Numbers","Author":"Albert Smith","Time":"01/14/2005","Tag":null,"Content":"My fellow residents of Alderwood! Great to be with you again for another set of lucky numbers! Are you ready? Here they are: 26 33 11 8 39 7 Wise Words of Weekly Wisdom: That some should be rich, shows that others may become rich, and, hence, is just encouragement to industry and enterprise. Abraham Lincoln (1809 - 1865"}
{"Id":"1101163977242","Title":"FDA cancels investigation","Author":"Mel Sacher","Time":"6/19/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Boynton Laboratories spokesperson Laurel Sulfate announced today that the FDA has discontinued its investigation of the Alderwood institution. \"The FDA informed us it was not pursuing its investigation of the laboratory, and that no operational modifications or impacts are imposed. We see this as a complete vote of confidence in the critical work Boynton is doing for the nation,\" said Sulfate. Phone calls to Dr. Boynton, lab director, or Dr. VonRyker, chief scientist, were not returned. It is believed VonRyker is currenly in Paraguay performing experimental field tests on infected cattle in that country"}
{"Id":"1101240332919","Title":"Boynton Laboratories Press Release","Author":"John Panni","Time":"9/15/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"Laurel Sulfate, executive assistant to director Dr. Philip Boynton of Boynton Labs, issued the following release about the institute's work: \"Our laboratory was founded in September 2002 with the goal of becoming the leading research facility in the pursuit of the cure for prion-related disease.. The laboratory has been started with two key lead scientists, and each of them has a different scientific backbone; medicine and protein science. The scope of our research ranges from basic science to technology related to either prion or prion disease. We work together among our biologists, computer scientists, and other specialists, with our leader and visionary Dr. Philip Boynton. Succinctly, the goal of our research is to disclose the molecular mechanism of prion disease and to make the disease curable. Prion diseases represented by CJD are infectious, fatal neurodegenerative illnesses. The pathogen tolerates ordinary sterilization methods and is called \"prion\", which is proposed to be free of genome and to consist mainly of a host-encoded protein, prion protein (PrP). This prion theory was introduced by Dr. Boynton over 20 years ago. However, the nature of prion is still a big mystery in science. Outbreaks of variant CJD and iatrogenic CJD demonstrate that this mysterious pathogen is a real threat to world public health.\""}
{"Id":"1101242384148","Title":"Herriman Grandview's 'Person of the Year","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"11/19/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"GRANDVIEW - Thursday night, 22 Grandview residents and business people were honored for the hard work and dedication they put into the local community. They came away from last night's Grandview Community Awards Banquet with engraved plaques commemorating their contributions and the realization that what they do for the community is important. Among those winners was Person of the Year award recipient Jim Herriman. Herriman has been a very active member of the Grandview community since he returned to his hometown recently. He currently serves as Chamber of Commerce president, and this year he helped work on the Alderwood Valley Fair and Rodeo, served as parade chairman and organized Band and Cheer Day. \"For the first time in many years, we had a band in our annual parade and it was great,\" said Mike Bradshaw, who presented the award to Herriman. Bradshaw added that there are many organizations in the community that have been made better thanks to Herriman's involvement, noting that he is always willing to help. \"He's a hands-on person who wants to get the job done,\" Bradshaw said. When Herriman, who served as the emcee for last night's event, realized that he had been named person of the year, he beamed. \"This community is the best thing that has ever happened to me,\" Herriman said. \"This town kind of took me by surprise.\" Herriman, who grew up in Grandview, said he has always loved the community. He told those in attendance that when he lived on the west side of the state people would get tired of hearing him talk about Grandview. \"No one could understand why I love this town so much and the reason is you guys,\" Herriman said, pointing to the audience. \"We have a sense of community.\" Herriman said he is excited to see things happening in the community, and is proud to be able to be a part of it. This year the President's Award, which is selected by the president of the Grandview Chamber of Commerce, went to local businessman Lynn Boast. Boast recently purchased the historic Iowa building in downtown Grandview and has been working diligently to restore the structure. Upon receiving the award, Boast said he is hoping that the work he is putting into his building will help spark a transformation of the community's downtown area. This year the Orrin Dybdahl Youth Service award was presented to Elizabeth Jimenez, who wrote the grant that ensured the purchase of the new playground equipment at Dykstra Park. Although Jimenez was the recipient of the award, she was quick to point out that she wasn't the only person involved with the playground project. \"It was a community effort,\" she said. \"It was a collaborative effort.\" The Past Service award was presented to Grandview Police Chief Dave Charvet. Herriman noted that Charvet has served as president of the Chamber of Commerce and has been active in both the chamber and the Grandview Rotary Club. Charvet was unable to attend the banquet, so Assistant Police Chief Armando Martinez accepted the award on his behalf. Martinez noted that as long as he has known Charvet, he has been someone who was always willing to lend a helping hand. The Outstanding Volunteer award went to Dianne Torres, the manager of the Grandview U.S. Bank branch. Torres is active in the Grandview Rotary Club and has been chairman of the United Way campaign in Grandview. \"We've been told that this lady can be relied on to do anything,\" Herriman said of Torres. \"That's a good definition of an outstanding volunteer.\" The Economic Development award went to Colleen and Dennis Byam. \"This couple has served on numerous city and county boards and commissions, and have been very active in the economic development of the Grandview community,\" Herriman said of the couple. He added that Colleen Byam currently serves as president of the Port of Grandview, while Dennis Byam is on the Grandview Planning Commission. This year the Outstanding Business award was presented to a new Grandview business, Brown's Les Schwab Tire Company and its owners Mac and Gail Brown. Herriman noted that the couple has made a firm commitment to the community and have put in a lot of time and effort into improving the highway corridor where their business is located. Members of the Grandview police and fire departments were also honored during the banquet. Grandview Assistant Police Chief Armando Martinez presented the award for Outstanding Police Officer to officer Mike Hopp. The recipient of the Outstanding Firefighter award, Kevin Glasenapp, was unable to attend last night's event. Someone else who was honored for their service to the community during the awards banquet was Grandview Councilman Norm Childress. Childress was the recipient of the 2004 Mayor's Beautification award. Mayor Mike Bren noted that he chose Childress as the award recipient because of his work on the slide show presentation that is given every year during the awards banquet. He said Childress has added a lot to the presentation over the years, showcasing all of the good things about the community. Many others were also recognized during the banquet, including a teacher and student of the year from each of the schools in the Grandview School District. McClure Elementary School Teacher of the Year is Jared Lind. Student of the Year is Diego Arroyo. \"He's a good role model,\" McClure Principal Steve Kaufman said of Arroyo. Arthur H. Jones School Teacher of the Year is Jennifer Novak. Student of the Year is Brandon Curtis. Jones Principal Diann Zavala said Curtis is a student who follows through on every task given to him and shows good leadership, noting that he has a kinder-buddy. Harriet Thompson Elementary School Teacher of the Year is Kara Dykstra. Student of the Year is Jocelyn Rodriguez. \"We're so proud to have her here,\" Harriet Thompson Principal Connie Davis said of Rodriguez. Grandview Middle School Teacher of the Year is Jeff Miller. Student of the Year is Krystal Valle. Middle School Principal Brian Anderson noted that Valle is the kind of student that makes a teacher excited to come to school every day. Compass High School Teacher of the Year is Charlie Diaz. Student of the Year is Merced Guerrero. \"I have a lot of respect for you,\" Compass Principal Mike Closner said of Guerrero. Grandview High School Teacher of the Year is Carol Bardwell, who works at the school as the junior and senior class counselor. Student of the Year is Dirk Desserault, who serves as ASB president"}
{"Id":"1101242384461","Title":"Forum","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"11/19/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"1-Column AHS students appreciate support On behalf of the Alderwood High School band, orchestra and MEChA Club, I would like to thank Ken, Chad and the crew of Ken's Quick Lube in Alderwood for the fund-raiser (Nov. 6). I would also like to thank the parents, students and community members who came out and supported our fund-raising event. The proceeds will be used to help fund goals each group has planned for this school year. Once again, a big thank you to all involved. /s/ Greg Herrera, MEChA Club advisor, Alderwood High School Give credit where credit due In response to Mr. Zimmerman and the group of individuals who signed the letter to the editor on Nov. 17, titled \"Little Council,\" which was in response to an Oct. 27 letter to the editor submitted by Alderwood Councilman John Torch. I am compelled to set the record straight so that the public does not misunderstand. The letter, or poem, that Councilman John Torch submitted as an Oct. 27 letter to the editor was written solely by Mr. Torch, not by the City Council of Alderwood. We need to give credit where credit is due. To my knowledge, never did the Alderwood City Council authorize or discuss any involvement in the writing of this letter to the editor. My reaction to Mr. Torch' letter was disbelief and disappointment in the content of this letter and its outlandish and disrespectful comments. Regardless of the city's history with these agencies or individuals, good or bad, we as council members have not been appointed to publicly humiliate or degrade any agency or person. I have been to several trainings regarding my role and responsibilities as a city council member, and I have never been told that this type of activity is part of my role in representing the citizens of this community. I believe that regardless of any history between the city and other agencies or individuals, we must not dwell on these things. We should move on with a more positive outlook on developing future partnerships for our city and strive to maintain those partnerships that have taken years to develop. God bless you Mr. Zimmerman, Mr. Torch and all the people who live in this awesome community. I'd also like to take this opportunity to ask all of you to pray for peace and for all the people who are currently in Iraq. /s/ Jennie Angel, Alderwood Small minded? I recently had the unfortunate opportunity to read the \"Little council\" letter to the editor (Nov. 17) signed by 17 people, and let me say, I was extremely disappointed, nay, appalled with their comments. First of all, the last time I checked, Mr. Torch is not the mayor, therefore he does not speak for the entire city council. Mr. Torch, just as the ladies and gentlemen were doing in their letter to the editor, was exercising his First Amendment rights. At no time did he say he represented or spoke on behalf of the city council. To set the record straight, the \"city coffers\" have not been diminished one iota by the purchase of the Monson feedlot. If you are not familiar with how the land was purchased, I would suggest you contact the city manager, Mr. Tom Rockford, as I am sure he would be glad to educate you on the facts. On the comments regarding privatization, I believe I have already made my thoughts clear on this subject. However, for the sake of those readers who did not see my last letter, I will reiterate. I am neither for nor against privatization. I have heard and witnessed both successes and failures when it comes to its implementation. However, in my opinion to overlook privatization simply because it is unpopular would be fiscally irresponsible. I have to admit that calling me, as well as my colleagues, \"small minded\" is an extremely bold move on the part of the 17 people who signed the Nov. 17 letter, considering of the numbers I have only personally met one of you, and I find it hard to believe that they would allow you to make such a statement about me. Before you pass judgment, why not come to a council meeting, take the time to get to know me, discuss your issues with me and let me have an opportunity to hear your side, as well as give me the same opportunity to present my side. If after we have talked you still feel the same way, by all means feel free to call me \"small minded.\" I personally feel that name calling and personal attacks are non-productive and only serve to confuse the issues. As for your comments about having the citizens \"stand up\" to the \"little council,\" I will close with saying, citizens of Alderwood, come to council meetings, voice your opinion, it's your right! I, for one, will welcome the opportunity to hear what you have to say. /s/ John Sarducci, City Councilman, Alderwood Election day disappointment Nov. 2 (Election Day), my fellow students and several so-called \"teachers\" disappointed me. That day I wore a t-shirt that expressed myself. A t-shirt that said on the front, \"Today's my birthday, wanna give me a present?\" The back said, \"Vote Kerry/Edwards.\" My t-shirt said absolutely nothing wrong whatsoever. It was my personal opinion. I was clearly under the dress code at my school and under the 1st Amendment of the Constitution of the United States of America, which states that you have the right to express yourself, the right to opinion and the freedom of speech. Many teachers read my shirt and whether they agreed or disagreed with my t-shirt, they had no negative comments to say about it. Many even said they liked my shirt and it showed character. But many students and so-called \"teachers\" had negative comments and actions towards my shirt. For example, one teacher I have read it, laughed and said, \"Bush is better.\" I didn't care about that because he has his own opinion. But what happened next made me furious. I got up to a presentation that had nothing to do with my t-shirt, in front of the whole class and they started to boo me. Even the teacher joined in. Then, my friend told a classmate to shut up and was reprimanded for it. Can you imagine the embarrassment and humiliation of this happening to you? This was not the end to my day. I went on to my next five classes and in each passing period and every class there was at least one person or group that said they were going to kick my butt or made a cruel, rude or vulgar comment. As I said earlier, I was deeply disappointed. I thought I attended a high school that only accepted the best from their students and faculty. I thought we were all mature. Obviously not! The disappointment made me nauseous. I was ready for some negative comments and the occasional \"why do you want them to win,\" but not for the cruel, rude, vulgar, mean, hurtful and tormenting experience I endured. Are our taxpayers paying our \"teachers\" to not practice the 1st Amendment? Are the teachers telling us we can only express their ideals? I felt I should have been able to express myself without consequences. I hope that people who read this realize one thing there is freedom of speech and the right to express yourself. Yes, rights do have limits, but I was within those limits. That the students and teachers made rude and vulgar comments was wrong! I hope that no student has to go through what I had to. Maybe in the future this incident could be handled better. Maybe it won't. I just hope that it will be handled appropriately. /s/ Veronica Hugie, Grandview High School freshman"}
{"Id":"1101242384726","Title":"Food Fore Thought","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"11/19/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Suzie Loffer It is common knowledge that there is a political bias to the press but what is often discounted is its ability to permeate all facets of our society. Until the sixties, the food we ate and how we chose to eat was neutral territory. Not any longer. The way food is raised, processed and ingested is an integral part of our nation's politics, spawning movements and reflecting media bias. The November issue of Vanity Fair magazine is no exception, rather another alarming example of undisciplined journalism, with an underlying political motive to discredit our nation's beef industry in response to their donations to the Republican Party. Since beef producers and Greenways in general don't reside in Vanity Fair's predominantly urban circulation areas, it is imperative they are made aware of the glaring cover currently being read this month in grocery lines across America that states \"America's Beef is Rotten and Washington Couldn't Care Less.\" Inside is a half page color photo of a very frightened cow with the caption, \"Order the Fish.\" When assertions like this are made, in their sites are the big guns, i.e...fast food restaurants like McDonald's, agri-business conglomerates, the National Restaurant Association and the National Cattlemen's Beef Association. Sadly, the power of some glib headline impacts those with the most to lose, good ranching families responsible for providing the steaks and hamburgers that have become America's dining heritage. The author, Eric Schlosser, known for his searing expose, \"Fast Food Nation, The Dark side of the all-American Meal,\" masterfully uses E. coli, mad- cow and salmonella to trump up unwarranted fear about beef. In this era of terrorism, he calls BSE America's most \"serious\" food-safety threat, despite the fact that the one B.S.E. infected bovine in Washington state was quickly isolated without an incident. The article even insinuates that there might be a conspiracy theory within the USDA testing program designed not to find BSE. In a lengthy paragraph Schlosser callously sensationalizes the final physical moments of a child's death from E-coli poisoning, attributing it to a hamburger when the evidence was inconclusive, conveniently omitting the fact that bagged lettuce was the source of 28 cases of school children infected with e-coli just last year and 50 teens in 2002. I find it interesting that green onions were notably absent on the November 2003 cover of Vanity Fair, given the fact that a year ago three people died and 510 people contracted hepatitis A from eating green onions imported from Mexico. Did Vanity Fair cover the recent outbreak of E-coli in organic strawberries and lettuce with the same aplomb as they did beef? Unfortunately, we all know the answer. It is obvious by tracking buying habits that consumers don't believe America's beef is \"rotten,\" rather they are appreciative of the branding, pricing and selection now available in their local food sources. It is time to stop politicizing food! As agtivists,, we can show support for America's Greenways and ranchers by boycotting publications that practice irresponsible journalism and refusing to buy the products advertised in them. Suzie Loffer represents the Food forethought organization that is an advocate for the agricultural industry"}
{"Id":"1101242385007","Title":"Rural Enterprise Community closes last chapter of 10-year book","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"11/17/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"A decade of hard work and dedication came to a close last night (Tuesday), as members of the Lower Alderwood Valley Rural Enterprise Community (REC) gathered for their final report to the community. For the past 10 years REC has helped create jobs, improve area infrastructure and provide housing opportunities for low income families. The group has been involved with a number of projects in the communities of Alderwood and Grandview, through either directly contributing funds or helping to leverage funds through the REC designation. REC is part of a nation-wide federal project that was started more than 10 years ago to help empower low income, rural communities. When Grandview and Alderwood first received their REC designation, the REC board was presented with 2.9 million that was supposed to help leverage more funds to help the two communities. According to Kim Tully with Alderwood County, as of Tuesday night the local REC board had designated all of its funding with the exception of 1,600 that will be used to cover closing costs and the final audit. Geri Horvath with the United States Department of Agriculture noted that over the past 10 years the REC board has been able to turn that original 2.9 million into 83.6 million, helping to leverage money for a variety of projects in the Lower Alderwood Valley. But despite the financial success the REC board has seen over the past decade, Horvath said she doesn't feel that it marks the largest contribution the organization has made to the Valley. \"It's the impact on the community that really stands out in my mind,\" Horvath said. She noted that instead of numbers she started looking at the different services and projects REC has brought to the Valley. She pointed to the jobs that have been created thanks to the REC designation, highlighting infrastructure improvements REC helped make possible at the Grandview wastewater treatment plant. The improvements helped keep industry alive and well in Grandview, therefore preserving nearly 600 jobs. Horvath said the local job market isn't the only area the effect of REC can be felt. She noted that REC was involved with the needs study that was done in regards to the Alderwood Community Center. \"There was some forethought in that,\" Horvath said, noting that the first spark for that project started with REC. Horvath said REC has also helped people realize the dream of home ownership. She said through the Self Help Housing program, which REC was involved in, there are 28 families who are living in their own homes. Horvath said over the past 10 years, REC has helped create 150 new housing units for low to moderate income families in the Valley. In terms of housing, Horvath said REC also played an integral part in the creation of the Bienstar transitional center. \"That's a direct result of the work of REC,\" she said. Very recently, Horvath said the REC designation helped the City of Grandview purchase a new pumper truck for the fire department. \"It's really a better place to live, a better quality of life, for the people in the Lower Valley [thanks to REC],\" she said. REC Board Chair Joan Souders, who has been involved with the group for the past eight years, also opted to look beyond the numbers Tuesday night. She said for her, REC has been about people and helping to make life better in the Alderwood, Grandview area. She also added that although REC was marking the end of its 10-year existence last night, she feels the effect of the organization will continue to be felt in the Valley for years to come. She told a story of a 17-year-old boy who had a brush with the law several years ago and was assigned to take part in the Kids First program, which was created with help from REC. Souders said the young man rode his bike to Kids First every day, making no qualms when asked by the younger children why he didn't drive. She said he pointed out that he had gotten his driver's license taken away because he had been drinking and driving. \"His story was much louder than anything an adult could say,\" she said. She added that now that young man is a father of two, working at the Wal-Mart distribution center, which REC helped contribute funds toward, where he is earning a living wage. \"The work of the REC has changed lives and the impact of the REC will go on,\" she said. During the slide show presentation, master of ceremonies Gerardo Ruelas touched on other projects REC has been involved in over the years. He said REC helped fund a new playground in Grandview's Dykstra Park, helped leverage funds for the creation of a daycare facility at the Grandview campus of Alderwood Valley Community College, and helped get many youth programs started in the area, such as the Youth Coalition. He added that REC helped provide funds for the construction of Valley Commons, a housing complex in Alderwood, provided a mini-grant to Horizons, which helped them build a new facility in Alderwood, and helped leverage funds for the construction of the Alderwood Law and Justice Center. According to Ruelas, REC also helped fund a feasibility study for the SunnyView skate park and helped provide infrastructure improvements to Grandview Port property. Grandview Mayor Mike Bren used Tuesday night as an opportunity to thank REC for everything they have helped make possible in the local community. \"In Grandview we have some projects that are REC funded that I think will be around for awhile,\" he said. Jennie Angel, a member of the REC board and a City of Alderwood Council member, agreed with Bren, noting that she feels the effect of REC will live on. She also commended all of the people who have been involved with REC over the years. Angel said it has been nice to see people come together to change the lives of people in the Lower Valley. Tina Cohen with the Washington State Department of Community Trade and Economic Development also took time to thank the people who have worked on the REC initiative over the past decade. She added that although the formal REC group was coming to a close, the work of the initiative is something that will continue. \"I know in the next 10 years we'll still be talking about the successes of the whole community,\" she said. Alderwood County Commissioner John Posse, who was a part of the group that helped bring the REC designation to the Lower Valley, said one of the best things that ever happened through REC was the bringing together of people on the board. He noted that it brought the communities of Alderwood and Grandview together. \"We were no longer looking at it as Grandview or as Alderwood, we were thinking of it as a community,\" Posse said. Steve Hill with Alderwood County said it has been exciting to work with the board itself over the past several years. He added that without the board REC wouldn't be where it is today. \"I'm only sorry that we are coming to the end of the initiative,\" Hill said. And to mark the end of the initiative, Souders rapped her gavel one last time. Although it was technically the last meeting of the board, Souders noted that REC will live on"}
{"Id":"1101242385289","Title":"County budget $58 million","Author":"Mel Sacher","Time":"11/17/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"GRANDVIEW - Alderwood County Commissioners held council in Grandview Tuesday night to take public input on county funds for the 2005 budget year. According to County Administrator Don Chopin, the 2005 county budget of 58,266,128 balances at this time. The budget is an increase from the 2004 budget of 55,696,403. Chopin said county officials were hoping to build the reserves by 1 million this year, but they are short. Instead, 371,433 will be placed in reserves. \"It will leave us short of the 5 percent we'd like to have in reserves, but the cuts were already pretty severe,\" said Chopin. Chief Financial Officer for the county, Cary Wainwright, explained that the county was hoping to have 5 percent in reserves to help during the peaks and valleys during the budget year. He explained that the majority of the county's funds are received twice a year and they need to have cash on-hand to pay the monthly bills. Without cash on-hand, the county would have to borrow money to pay the bills. Not part of the budget is the 3/10's of a cent sales tax increase for law enforcement, which was approved by voters earlier this month. Chopin said it will be several months before the county begins to see the tax money, which will be going into a special dedicated fund for law enforcement. A supplemental budget change will be made later in the year, which will allow the funds to be spent on law and justice. He explained that the county may give law enforcement an internal loan to keep people from being laid off. The 2005 budget will eliminate 26 positions within Alderwood County. Wainwright said that half the positions are currently vacant. Among the positions that are being eliminated are 3-1/2 positions with the county's parks department. Two of the positions are currently vacant and one full-time position will be going to half-time. The parks director position held by Dave Veley is also being eliminated, said Wainwright. He said that the county will no longer be having any outreach or future planning for parks at this time, which were part of Veley's duties. Wainwright said the county is hoping to be able to absorb Veley into another department. Wainwright said a cut in law and justice across the board from the sheriff's office to the prosecutor's office is also being made. The budget doesn't call for cuts in the number of sheriff's deputies, but two dispatchers will be laid off. There will also be cuts in the number of prosecuting attorneys in Alderwood County, some of which were planning to retire this year. One member of the audience, Colleen Fleming of Grandview, spoke out in favor of the county's support of 4-H. The county only reduced the budget of Cooperative Extension, which 4-H falls under, by 16,348 in 2005. Fleming said her daughter went through the program and was able to learn about government as part of the program. \"We think 4-H is important,\" said Alderwood County Commissioner Tom Camay. Retiring Commissioner Tim June said that it will be important for 4-H supporters to sit down with commissioners next year and talk about some funding sources for the program. June said that while coming up with the county budget, the commissioners thought long and hard about cuts to non-essential programs, which he added there was a push to make cuts in. He said it is frustrating to see the criminal justice system suck up all the tax dollars. \"We have to house them, delouse them, try them and defend them,\" said June. At 100 a day for a juvenile offender and 45 to 49 for an adult offender, much of the county budget is used in criminal justice. Fleming said part of the problem is the growth of towns and cities. \"The cities are taking away from the county,\" said Fleming. \"They're getting larger and larger.\" She believes the cities should have to pay something to house criminals in the county jail. June said the county has asked the cities and the legislature about the financial responsibility, but hasn't found any relief because of budget crunches. \"Everybody has a budget crunch,\" said Fleming, who added that programs like 4-H can help keep kids out of trouble. She added that part of the reason she and others voted for the tax increase for law enforcement was so that it will relieve some of the financial pressure and keep what is currently operating in place. The 2005 budget will see an increase in the budget for public safety. While most areas, such as the coroner's and sheriff's office and the Department of Security saw budget reductions, the Department of Corrections budget will be increased from 17,481,150 in 2004 to 19,693,050. Also increasing is the amount of revenue expected to come from the Department of Corrections. Revenue is expected to increase about 12.1 percent, slightly less than the 12.65 percent budget increase for the corrections department. Increases have also been budgeted for District Court, which will jump from 1,944,538 to 2,141,171, a 10 percent increase. District Court revenues, on the other hand, are anticipated to decrease by nearly 10 percent. Also to increase is the budget for the county's planning department. The planning department budget will increase from 1,669,506 in 2004 to 1,902,616 in 2005. The commissioners are scheduled to adopt the budget Thursday, Nov. 18, at 10 a.m. in the commissioners hearing room in Yakima"}
{"Id":"1101242385523","Title":"Earlier report of cuts to Alderwood Police Department much rosier now","Author":"John Panni","Time":"11/17/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Prior to Tuesday night's Alderwood City Council budget study session, life at the Alderwood Police Department looked pretty grim for 2005. City Manager Tom Rockford released a memo at the beginning of November that detailed where proposed budget cuts would be made in 2005 to help offset a 393,910 revenue shortfall. One of the areas that was proposed in the 2005 budget to help save money was not filling four positions at the police department, three of which were vacant at the time. But thanks to voters in Alderwood County passing a 3/10's of 1 percent sales tax with the money to go towards law and justice county-wide, the Alderwood Police Department has found new life. Alderwood Police Chief Ted Mana Tuesday night outlined his plans for utilizing the money from the county sales tax in the coming year. In all, the Alderwood Police Department has four vacancies-one vacancy in the corrections department, one from the death of Sgt. Steve Evans and the other two from two patrol officers leaving for other positions. \"No one currently employed is going to be losing their jobs,\" said Mana. Mana told Council he wants to use the county tax money to hire an officer at the beginning of the year. This will allow the department to retain the traffic officer position, which is currently being held by Kent Coffman. Without hiring an additonal officer at the beginning of the year, Coffman's services would have had to be used elsewhere in the department to cover vacancies. \"We believe that is an important enough function,\" said Mana. In the middle of the year, Mana plans to hire another officer in hopes of providing the detectives division with some additional assistance. Also at mid-year, Mana plans to create an administrative secretary position, replacing a data entry person that will be leaving. The proposed law enforcement budget for 2005 is 2.1 million. The major expenditure in this department is salaries, 1.2 million. Rockford told Council Tuesday night about a plan he has to lease police vehicles in 2005. As a result, Council was able to take 35,000 from the 163,760 set aside in the line item for other services and charges. The 35,000 will now go to help operate the Alderwood Community Center, said Rockford. One significant expenditure in the law enforcement budget deals with overtime. For 2005, Mana has set aside 92,000 for overtime, which is up considerably from 56,420 in 2004. The 2004 amount was based in part on a strong desire by Council to reduce the overtime budget. In 2003, the police department had an overtime budget of 103,395. Mana said his overtime budget is based on past usage. The most difficult problem with overtime in the police department, said Mana, is having to fill positions when staff members are gone. Mana said the amount being set aside for overtime is still less than it would cost to hire people for the actual positions. Of the 34 current staff members at the police department, Mana said 22 of those are commissioned officers. The police department is currently at staffing levels for officers that it had in 1991, the chief told Council. Councilman Tom Seeger said he was worried about how overtime would be affected once the new dispatch center at the law and justice center is completed by the middle of next year. Mana said overtime will be a concern at the new center. However, the city will be having some new revenue from housing prisoners that will assist in paying for overtime expenses, said Mana. The United States Marshal Service is closing some of its locations around the state and will now be using the Alderwood jail to house prisoners. Seeger was also concerned with the city's involvement with the High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas (HIDTA), a program operated by the Washington State Patrol. . The police department currently dedicates one office to working with HIDTA. Mana said there is benefits to the partnership, such as having an officer working with HIDTA on a full-time basis. Seeger wanted to see what kind of cost benefits there is to the city to continue this partnership. Seeger was also curious about the partnership the city has with the school district for funding the two school resource officers. Mana said the school district has increased its funding for the positions to 100,000 annually. The city pays about one-third of the costs to have the officers in the schools. The police department gets the services of the two officers back during the summer months. Mana said an issue is that during the summer months, the officers usually take their vacation, so there is no real benefit to the city. The budget for the corrections department is a separate item. The proposed 2005 corrections department budget is 537,410, which is an increase from the 516,010 budgeted in 2004. The increase in the budget comes under the line item for supplies, which increases from 97,300 in 2004 to 157,500 in 2005. Captain Bill Bank said the primary expenses in supplies are the meals for prisoners and cleaning supplies. Bank said the corrections budget is a conservative estimate of where it should be. The proposed communications department budget at the police department is 492,190 for 2005. This budget covers the dispatching services"}
{"Id":"1101242385820","Title":"Obituaries","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"11/17/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"LORNA RUTH (WADDELL) GRAF LORNA RUTH (WADDELL) GRAF Lorna Ruth (Waddell) Graf, 48, of Yakima died Monday, Nov. 15, 2004, at Crescent Convalescent Center, Yakima. She was born in Alderwood on July 6, 1956, to Loren Paul Waddell Sr. and Louella Irene (Pilcher) Waddell. She graduated from Alderwood High School in 1974 and was on the Dean s list at Eastern Washington University. Lorna is survived by her daughter, Laural Graf; and siblings, Maria (St. Clair) Woodworth, Joyce Korevaar, Loren (Dorothy) Waddell, Leah (Don) Schaneman and Avon Jones. She was preceded in death by her parents; and son. Visitation will be held Wednesday, Nov. 17, 2004, from 4 to 8 p.m. at Jones Funeral Home, Alderwood. A memorial service is scheduled for Saturday, Nov. 20, 2004, at 1 p.m. at St. Timothy s Episcopal Church, Yakima. A private family graveside service will be held Thursday, Nov. 18, 2004 in Alderwood. Jones Funeral Home is in charge of arrangements. Memorials may be made to HDSA NW Chapter, PO Box 33345, Seattle, WA 98133. Please designate it to be used for research. CHARLES EDWARD SHOCKLEY Charles Edward Shockley, 92, a resident of Mill Creek Point Assisted Living Home in The Dalles, Ore., died Saturday, Nov. 13, 2004. Mr. Shockley was born in Outlook on Nov. 10, 1912 to George William Shockley and Dora Ellen Partch Shockley. He began his education at Independence School near the family farm in the Alderwood Valley of eastern Washington. He entered the fifth grade at Outlook School and graduated from high school in 1933, followed by attendance at Hemphill Diesel Engineering School in Tacoma. In 1936 Mr. Shockley married Doris Lorraine Hill and began his career as an auto mechanic and owner of a service station in Sumner. During World War II he worked for Boeing Aircraft. In 1944, he and his family moved to Tacoma, where he worked as a mechanic servicing trucks for Meadowsweet Dairy, Inc. He married Viola (Hermann) Dickson in 1961. He is survived by his daughters, Deanna Lee Meyers of Everett, Carol Jean Strom and husband, (Howard) of Othello, Peggy Ann Adamich (Edward) of Port Angeles; eight grandchildren; nine great-grandchildren; and one great-great-grandson. He was preceded in death by his wife Viola; his brothers Claude and Harry Shockley; and one grandson. Private family graveside services were held in The Dalles, Ore. Spencer Libby and Powell Funeral Home of The Dalles Ore., was in charge of arrangements. Memorials may be made to Make A Wish Foundation or the charity of your choice. MARGARET MAY BOLIN EDES Margaret Edes, 90, of Alderwood went to be with her Lord Monday, Nov. 15, 2004, at Hillcrest Manor Nursing Home. Margaret was born in Nampa, Idaho. She graduated from Nampa High School and attended Northwest Nazarene College. During World War II she worked in civil service in California. In 1943 she married Wesley Edes in Lamberton, Minn. She has resided in Alderwood since 1966. She was a dedicated wife of 61 years and loving mother. Margaret was a member of the Church of Nazarene and served as church treasurer many years. She loved to play the piano and sing hymns. She enjoyed kittens, reading, The Art Linkletter Show and Lawrence Welk. Margaret most enjoyed giving loving, nurturing care to her grandchildren. Margaret is survived by her husband, Wesley; son, Gordon and wife Audrey, of Alderwood; daughter, Carolyn (Edes) Larson and husband, Ernie, of Grandview. She is also survived by two foster children, Teana (Rector) Vannieuwenhuizen of Granger and Allen Carpenter of Vancouver; 10 grandchildren; and two great-grandchildren. A memorial service will be held in her honor Friday, Nov. 19, 2004, at 2 p.m. at Jones Funeral Home in Alderwood. In remembrance of Margaret s generous spirit, her family asks that you make a donation in her honor to The Gideon s International, PO Box 1225, Alderwood, WA 98944. RUTH MARIE (KRON) CULP HUNTER Our dear Ruth Marie (Kron) Culp Hunter, 78, of Yakima left us to join our Lord Jesus on Tuesday, Nov. 16, 2004, after her battle with cancer. Ruth was born to Ernest R. and Lizzie Kron on March 19, 1926 in Loup City, Neb. A twin sister, Ruby Mae died as a two-year-old. The family moved to Richland in 1934. Ruth graduated from Richland High School when Hanford closed school in early 1943. She married a Richland friend, Donald Culp, who served in the Navy in 1943. They were married for just two short weeks when his ship was one of three lost in a typhoon at sea. She later met and married Ralph Wilbur Hunter of California on Nov. 8, 1946, and when their first child, Ruby Marie was just six-weeks-old they moved back to a farm in Prosser. Two other children, Steven Ralph and Bruce Lee blessed their marriage. Her life was devoted to family and friends alike. She loved helping others and enjoyed attending all the sporting events with Ralph throughout the many years both sons played football, baseball, basketball or softball. She herself loved bowling and did so until becoming ill in June of this year. She worked the farm alongside Ralph and also as a school cook in Prosser. Ruth is survived by her family, daughter, Ruby Bruns (Rod) of Yakima; son, Steven Hunter (Sandy) of Hermiston, Ore.; and son Bruce Hunter of Yakima; her grandchildren Rhonda Hutton and David of Yakima, Robyn Neumeyer of Olympia, Tyler and Trevor Hunter of Yakima; and her precious great-granddaughter Morgan Hutton, also of Yakima. She is also survived by her brothers and sisters, Carl and Anna Kron, Ed and Irene, Anna Hunter, Velma (Culp) Scott; and numerous nieces and nephews and friends. She was preceded in death by both parents, E.T. and Lizzie Kron; husbands, Donald Culp and Ralph Hunter, her twin Ruby Mae and sister Hazel Books, as well as other loved Hunter and Kron family members. Funeral services will be held Monday, Nov. 22, 2004, at 10 a.m. at Jones Funeral Home, Alderwood with burial to follow at Lower Valley Memorial Gardens, Alderwood. In lieu of flowers those wishing to honor her memory may contribute to the Yakima Memorial Hospice or the Immanuel Lutheran Church"}
{"Id":"1101242386054","Title":"Council looks at how best to spend new criminal justice tax","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"11/16/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"GRANDVIEW - Although voters just recently passed Proposition #1, which implements an additional 3/10's of a penny sales tax increase in Alderwood County to help support the area's criminal justice system, voters are already looking for results. Monday night, Grandview City Councilwoman Helen Darr noted that she has already received a phone call from a voter asking if they can expect to see more Grandview police officers on the streets starting Jan. 1, 2005. City Administrator Jim Sewell noted that the county is not going to be able to start collecting the new sales tax until April, with cities not receiving any funding until June. City Treasurer John Myers added that since collection won't begin until several months into 2005, the city will not receive its full allotment the first year. He said in 2005 the city can expect to receive between 90,000 and 95,000 from the new criminal justice tax. Mayor Mike Bren said since the tax won't be collected until spring, the city should probably wait to hire anyone new. He explained that if the city hires a new police officer in January, the city will end up paying that person's salary. City Councilman Norm Childress added that if the city hires a new police officer before the funding arrives, it might be considered that the officer is a regular staff member and not qualify for Proposition #1 funding. The Council also voiced concerns about hiring a new police officer, noting that if they have to send the officer to the policy academy it could be a year before citizens actually see the new hire out on the streets. Councilman Robert Morales asked why there is such an urgency to begin spending the funds. He noted that the Grandview Police Department has sat with 16 officers for a number of years. Instead, he felt that the city should take some time to figure out where the gap is in the City's current police service, and where the money really needs to be spent. \"The urgency I feel is a lot of the time the city only has one officer on duty through the night,\" said Councilwoman Pam Horner. She added that crime continues to grow in the community. \"That's my sense of urgency,\" she said. Sewell noted that the recommendation to hire another officer came from Police Chief Dave Charvet. He added that Council has the final decision has to how the funds from the criminal justice tax are spent. Childress also pointed out that he feels its important that the city not look like it's sitting on its hands and not moving forward with something the taxpayers want. \"People are expecting something quickly,\" Darr said. Council members noted that they would like to invite Charvet to attend a council meeting in order to discuss how the city will spend the funds that will be coming in thanks to Proposition #1. \"There really are a lot of considerations,\" Sewell said"}
{"Id":"1101242386320","Title":"City Council's 2005 budget relatively unchanged","Author":"John Panni","Time":"11/16/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"The Alderwood City Council spent Monday night's 2005 budget study session combing through several department budgets, including the legislative fund. The legislative fund is allocated for Council operations. The proposed 2005 budget for the legislative fund is 38,210, which is up from 37,740 in 2004. One of the significant expenditures in the legislative budget totals 14,000 for salaries and wages. Council members pointed out to City Manager Tom Rockford that there will probably be money left from the 2004 budget since Council scaled back the number of meetings it has each month from four to two. Council members are paid 40 for each meeting they attend. The mayor receives 200 a month, while the mayor pro-tem is paid 90 per month. Council did approve moving 4,000 from the salaries and wages line item for other services and charges. This will help cover expenses for trainings and various organizational meetings. The legislative fund also has 7,000 set aside for expenses such as travel, insurance and office supplies. Funding for the beautification awards also comes out of this fund. The largest expenditure in the legislative fund is for intergovernmental services, which totals 16,000. Rockford said this is money Alderwood County charges for election costs. Council did incur a large travel budget in 2004, said Rockford. There had only been 1,000 budgeted for travel, but the amount so far charged to the account is 4,100. Rockford said the extra expense is from Council searching for a new city manager"}
{"Id":"1101242386554","Title":"Another public defender may be added to judicial budget","Author":"John Panni","Time":"11/16/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"One of the discussion items before the Alderwood City Council Monday night at its budget study session was the 2005 judicial budget for the municipal court system. The proposed judicial budget for 2005 totals 239,940, a slight increase from the 2004 amount of 229,140. The largest expenditure in the judicial budget is for salaries and wages, 106,810. This is up slightly from the 2004 amount of 106,150. Salary increases in 2005 are set to be minimal, but the area for personal benefits saw a 6,200 increase ( 42,740) from 2004. Finance Director Chad Stotz said the reason for the difference between the salary increase and personal benefits is that the city will incur extra costs for such benefits as medical and retirement. Another significant line item in the judicial budget is under other services and charges, which as proposed will total 74,990 in 2005. Alderwood City Manager Tom Rockford said this money goes towards paying the retainer the city has for its public defender and prosecutor. Rockford said he will bring back at a future Council meeting a discussion to hire an additional public defender at a cost of 2,200 per month. Rockford wants to use the money the city will receive from the 3/10's of 1 percent sales tax increase Alderwood County voters recently approved for the new position. The budget proposal also includes a 300 pay increase for the city's municipal court judge, Gene Stitler. Rockford said the pay increase will help align Stitler' salary with that of other judges in Alderwood County. Councilman John Torch recommended the city increase its fee structure for fines to help bring in additional revenue"}
{"Id":"1101242405914","Title":"Lady 'Hounds place sixth at State","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"11/15/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"YAKIMA - The Grandview High School volleyball team started strong this past weekend at the 2A State tournament, but a loss Saturday kept the 'Hounds out of the running for the title. The Lady 'Hounds finished their State run with a sixth place finish, winning two of four matches. Grandview won both of its matches Friday. The team made short work of Steilacoom, winning by scores of 25-5, 25-17, 25-6. The Lady 'Hounds also dispatched Rochester by scores of 25-18, 25-10, 25-12. However, when the Lady 'Hounds took to the court against Meridian this past Saturday, things didn't turn out exactly how Grandview had hoped. The team lost to the eventual State titlists 19-25, 15-25, 25-13, 18-25. Grandview Coach John LaFever said Meridian had one excellent player, who was adept with her spikes and overall net coverage. \"She was the best player at State,\" LaFever said of the Meridian team member. Following the loss to Meridian, Grandview's first loss to a 2A team all year, the Lady 'Hounds weren't able to recover their composure. \"They were pretty disappointed because they lost their goal [of taking the State title],\" LaFever said. He noted that when it came time to play the last match of the tournament his team didn't have its heart in it. \"Some of them were still a little disappointed,\" LaFever said. And it's that disappointment that led the Lady 'Hounds to lose their second match of the day against Kings. In the trophy round match that decided third and sixth place honors at State, Grandview was upended 25-20, 23-25, 25-15, 21-25, 11-15. LaFever said he was a little disappointed with his team's performance against Kings, but added that he understood that this team had just seen their aspirations disappear. \"They had high aspirations and when that didn't happen, that one goal, they didn't refocus,\" he said. Overall at the State tourney, staged in the Yakima SunDome, freshman Kealey Johnston had 21 kills, 7 aces, 53 service points and 113 digs. LaFever noted that Johnston did an outstanding job at State. \"She was probably the best all around player on the team,\" he said. Also helping the 'Hounds were senior Danelle Cowan with 57 kills, 12 blocks, 5 aces and 34 service points, senior Valentina Solis with 50 kills, 9 aces, 34 service points and 14 blocks, senior Mari Cornejo with 12 kills, 6 blocks and 5 assists, junior Angie Cabrera with 5 kills and 64 digs, setter Chante Bottineau with 121 assists, 39 digs, 3 kills and 3 aces, Tonhya Wysong with 147 digs and Jessica Gonzalez with 4 service points and 3 digs. Overall, LaFever said he was happy with his team's performance, noting that this marks the fifth time in the last seven years that the volleyball team has brought a trophy back from the State tournament. Looking back at the season, LaFever said his team did well and he is looking forward to next year. He said he expects the Lady 'Hounds to be a highly competitive team in 2005"}
{"Id":"1101242406226","Title":"Fire captains air concerns with 2005 budget cuts","Author":"John Panni","Time":"11/12/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"All three captains from the Alderwood Fire Department-Yan Sing, Tom Siliano and Bud Jones-were on hand at Wednesday's Alderwood City Council budget study session to voice their concerns about the 2005 budget. However, Alderwood City Manager Tom Rockford had a message for the fire department. He encouraged staff to weather the storm and said hopefully things will improve in the future. The budget for the Alderwood Fire Department is divided into three categories-fire control, fire equipment and emergency medical service/ambulance. Prior to delving into the budget, Rockford provided Council with some history of how the city has improved the revenue stream for the fire department. Rockford has revamped the ambulance utility tax fee that was ruled unconstitutional by the state Supreme Court earlier this year. Prior to the ruling by the high court, the city was charging a 3 tax on residents' water and sewer bills. Alderwood voters had approved the tax shortly after the fire department began offering an ambulance service in 1990. Alderwood stopped collecting the tax shortly after the ruling by the court earlier this year. The new version of the ambulance utility fee tax will keep the 3 per month fee, but the amount will now be charged to both residents and businesses. The fee is calculated on the average number of residents living in a home in Alderwood, 3.6. Every business will be charged based on the 3.6 employees ratio up to 100 employees. The new fee will generate 350,000, said Rockford. Rockford was able to clear up 70,000 in additional money for the fire department by moving expenses over to the ambulance fund. The proposed 2005 fire control budget is 595,410, down considerably from the 639,220 budget in 2004. A majority of the fire control budget, 295,480, covers the salaries for the 13 positions within the department. The budget does contain a one-time expense of 6,000 to replace a failing boiler. One area of significant increase is in overtime. In 2004, the city spent 13,370 in the fire control budget for overtime. That figure will rise to 31,306 in 2005. Rockford said overtime expenses are being paid for through a grant the city received. The overtime will go towards training for staff and the 22 members of the volunteer fire department. A significant change in the fire department budget is the elimination of two firefighter/paramedic positions. There are currently two staff members serving in the military in Iraq, who are scheduled to return to work next year. Rockford said under the terms of the labor contract the city's fire staff has, the employees with least seniority will be laid off first. One of the positions being proposed for elimination is held by Jamel Linzsey, who is serving in Iraq. The other fireman serving in Iraq is Gregg Hutchinson, who has the most seniority of the two firefighters. Rockford presented a proposal to Council regarding layoffs. Rockford said that since Linzsey is scheduled to come home from active duty at the beginning of the year, he asked Council to fund Linzsey's position until the time Hutchinson returns from Iraq. Once Hutchinson returns, Linzsey will be laid off from the fire department. The other position set to be cut is that of Josh Roe. Councilwoman Jennie Angel was concerned about laying off any of the firefighters. Interim Fire Chief Adam Dent did acknowledge the fire department has managed without the two staff members serving in Iraq. Dent, though, did say that without a full staff it does make it difficult to provide needed services. Dent said he likes to have four staff members on call each of the 24-hour shifts. \"We try to provide the highest level of service to everybody in the community at the same time,\" said Dent. Angel asked how much it would cost to fund a firefighter/paramedic position. Rockford said in the neighborhood of 65,00, including benefits. Mayor Rex Luthor agreed with Angel with her concerns about reducing the staff. \"I am nervous losing this large of a percentage of people providing a critical service in the community,\" said Luthor. Fire Captain Tom Siliano wasn't so optimistic about the department being able to do its job not fully staffed. \"It is actually a living hell to be running short,\" said Siliano. Siliano said it has been difficult for the captains to do their jobs without a full crew. Siliano expressed concerns about not replacing the fire marshal position, which Dent used to hold. Siliano said those duties, which include conducting fire inspections, will now fall on the captains. Siliano said with more time by the captains being dedicated to fire inspections, there will be less time for important department activities, such as training and being available to fight fires. Councilman John Torch suggested the captains schedule appointments for fire inspections. Siliano said the idea is good in concept, but it won't work. Siliano said it is better to show up unexpectedly, which will reveal more problems and in the end assist the business owners in setting up a safer work environment. Siliano said when conducting a fire inspection it is important to see business owners in their every day work environment. Rockford interjected and offered a few comments about the fire department. \"All we expect you to do is do what you can do,\" said Rockford. Rockford said by taking action now with the budget cuts, the city will be talking about what to do with increased revenues he is projecting down the road in just a few years. The city is getting along now with three less department heads, said Rockford. \"Are we taking some risks?,\" asked Rockford. \"What choice do we have.\" The fire equipment reserve fund budget is 163,00 in 2005, up from 148,200 in 2004. The increase is mainly due to 131,000 in grant monies the department received. The EMS/ambulance fund is budgeted at 998,990, which is up from 890,000 in 2004. Salaries account for 449,630 of the budget. The salaries for the fire department are split between EMS and the fire control budgets. The EMS budget will start 2005 with a beginning fund balance of 250,000 and end with a projected balance of 269,580. Councilman Tom Seeger wanted to look into the relationship the city has with Alderwood County Fire District #5. Seeger's concerns dealt with the city firemen, who are also county volunteers, responding to a fire outside city limits. Seeger said he was concerned the city wasn't receiving any compensation for the hours spent fighting county fires. Councilman John Torch wanted to once again begin the discussion about regionalizing county fire department services. \"Why don't we start waving our flag,\" said Torch. \"We are the premiere guys"}
{"Id":"1101242406461","Title":"Transforming the red and blue into the red, white and blue","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"11/12/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"DON C. BRUNELL Thankfully, the elections are over. Hopefully, the economy won't collapse with the end of campaign spending. More than 4 billion was spent on federal elections, 1.2 billion of that on the presidential race alone. So the key question is, \"Where do we go from here?\" For months, the Bush and Kerry campaigns permeated the airwaves talking about the issues and philosophies that divide us and thus, what splits America. If that wasn't bad enough, attack ads bankrolled by independent interest groups, empowered by campaign finance \"reform,\" portrayed opposing candidates as villains or untrustworthy clods. In the end, President Bush received almost five million more votes than Senator Kerry and more than enough electoral votes to be re-elected. But five million votes out of more than 110 million votes cast is hardly a landslide. Now President Bush goes back to the White House and John Kerry returns to the U.S. Senate in search of ways to bring the country together. Both the President and Kerry recognize that no one will have won if the nation remains as angrily divided as it was on election night. Simply put, if something is not done to transform the bitterness of the \"Reds\" and the \"Blues\" into support for the red, white and blue, we will be a weakened nation, at home and abroad. The same can be said for Washington state. With the closeness of the gubernatorial election, almost half the voters will feel the wrong person will live in the governor's mansion starting next January. So, how does the healing process begin? First, Congress and the President need to take a hard look at the federal election laws. The so-called \"independent expenditures\" are out of control. Why not change the law and direct the funds back through the parties and campaigns. At least voters will know if the party or the candidate is responsible for the \"hit pieces\" and \"attack ads.\" Then they can hold them accountable at the polls. Second, why not give the news anchors and political pundits the rest of the year off? Their constant chatter about the deep divisions between rural and urban America only fuels antagonism. Third, all of us need to listen more than we talk. Rather than trying to convince one another of the merits of our position or argument, why not look for ways to find common ground. Fourth, we need to determine the issues that will govern our future. Our competitors around the world aren't going take a hiatus while we try to figure that out. Finally, with the record number of people energized to vote, why not capture that momentum by restoring trust in the representative process of government. That means developing bipartisan solutions rather than jamming one-sided proposals through the process-and that will require various interest groups to sit down and try to hammer out joint proposals. It will not be easy - nothing worthwhile ever is - but there is too much at stake not to try. Both John Kerry and George Bush provided an opening in their gracious post-election statements on Nov. 3. Why not try a new direction? Don C. Brunell is president of the Association of Washington Business"}
{"Id":"1101242406742","Title":"2005 will bring many changes for Alderwood's parks department","Author":"John Panni","Time":"11/11/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Alderwood Parks and Recreation Director Don Stiles made what will almost certainly be his last budget presentation to the Alderwood City Council during its study session on Wednesday night. As part of cuts in the 2005 budget to help make-up for a 393,910 shortfall, City Manager Tom Rockford proposed to Council to eliminate Stiles' position. The position cut will result in a 25,000 savings for the city. But Stiles found an ally during Wednesday night's study session in Councilman Raul Martinez. Martinez said he would like to comb through the budget to find the 25,000 to keep Stiles, saying the position was important to the parks department. \"If we can find the funds as we comb through the budget, I would opt to keep a director,\" said Martinez. Prior to discussing Stiles' position, Council sifted through the 2005 budget requests for the parks department. An added expense in 2005 is the unforeseen duty to operate the community center next year. The city will take back control of the community center because the Washington State Migrant Council, which is currently managing the facility, terminated its contract. The city assumes control of the community center Dec. 1. Plans are to locate the parks and recreation department at the community center, said Rockford. Why the city is in such a quandary with the community center, said Rockford, is that under the terms of the Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) the city obtained for construction of the community center, officials have to keep the building open to the public. \"The difficulty we face here is having this thrust upon us when we really don't have the ability to say no,\" said Rockford. The proposed 2005 budget for the parks department totals 530,270. Operating the community center will add an additional 63,180 in expenses. Rockford and Finance Director Chad Stotz estimate it will cost the city 73,180 to operate the community center in 2005, but the figure was reduced because the city is using 10,000 it already has available in the budget to operate the facility. The city is anticipating 53,400 in revenue from the community center in 2005. Parks and rec salaries in 2005 will total 267,160, down from 272,630 in 2004. Under the proposed budget, Stiles will lose his position as parks director. This will result in the creation of a parks and recreation coordinator. The city will then hire a recreation assistant. Rockford said it was a difficult decision to cut the parks and recreation director position. Focusing on the community center, Stiles explained that to maintain the staffing the Migrant Council has had at the community center, it will cost the city 25,560. Stiles said the city could help fund some of those positions by continuing catering services at the center. Stiles is speculating the city could raise 12,000 next year in catering. Councilman John Torch wanted to look at partnering with the school district to possibly hire someone to oversee the community center and the operation of other venues in the community. \"I feel like all we are going to do at best is keep the doors open at the community center,\" said Torch. Torch said the problem with the city proposal is that the parks and recreation staff will be busy doing their duties and have no time to operate the center. Rockford said one area the Migrant Council was successful in was obtaining volunteers at the community center. Rockford is hoping to establish a strong volunteer base. Rockford acknowledged that the next year will be a learning experience for operating the community center. Mayor Rex Luthor wanted to continue to look at partnerships, but suggested Council move forward with adopting the proposed budget. Much like Martinez, Torch was cautious about having the position of recreation coordinator be in charge of parks and recreation duties. Torch said he would like to look through the parks budget for extra revenue funds. Stiles ended the evening with a few comments for Council. Stiles said he doesn't agree 100 percent with the decision by Rockford to eliminate his position. Stiles nixed a suggestion that he serves as director of the community center. If Council does decide to eliminate his position, Stiles told Council that after 17 plus years working as parks director it would be hard for him to relinquish the role. \"It is going to be a challenge, but there are some things I am looking at,\" said Stiles. \"I appreciate the opportunity to have worked for the City of Alderwood.\" There are two other areas that fall within the parks and recreation budget-the Alderwood Museum and the Alderwood Senior Center. These two items are reviewed as separate budget areas. The city was able to free up some extra money after relinquishing control of the library to the Yakima Regional Library System. Maintenance and custodial work for the local library fell under control of the Alderwood parks department. As a result of giving up operation of the library, Rockford in the 2005 preliminary budget spread around the duties of the custodian that cleaned the library. This results in a little less than 4,000 salary increase for the custodian cleaning the museum. The budget for the Alderwood Senior Center, which is also a separate item from the actual parks and recreation budget, will see a minimal increase in its 2005 budget because of additional custodial work. The proposed budget for the senior center in 2005 is 15,600, up from 12,810 in 2004"}
{"Id":"1101242406976","Title":"Low income housing proposal hits snag","Author":"Jamie Smart","Time":"11/11/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"After nearly two hours of public testimony surrounding an annexation and land use request from Alderwood property owners Brandon Burns and Harry and Laura Burns, the Alderwood Planning Commission voted this past Wednesday night to approve the Burns' annexation into the city limits. However, the Planning Commission denied the Burns' land use request for their property, located at the southeast corner of North 16th Street and Sheller Road. Commission members said it didn't conform with surrounding land uses located on the west side of North 16th Street. The Burns sought to have their property zoned R-3, high density residential, which allows for the development of multi-housing complexes. \"We've discovered our original plan for development of the land is unworkable,\" Harry Burns told the Commission. He said the family had been contacted by the Diocese of Yakima Housing Services, which wants to create a 51-unit housing complex on the Burns property, as well as an office that would oversee the operations of all its Lower Valley housing complexes. However, despite the attractiveness of the Diocese's proposal, which is similar to an existing housing complex recently completed in Mabton, the Planning Commission determined that R-2 was a better match for the area in question. The commissioners felt the area should not be used for professional offices, which is allowable under the R-3 zoning codes. Representatives for the Diocese and Beacon Development Group, the project developers, told the commission they supported the Burns' request for an R-3 designation. They took Wednesday night's public hearing as an opportunity to outline how their affordable housing proposal could enhance the community. The developers expect to not only provide rental property for low income families, but education programs to help families stabilize with the end goal being home ownership. Their plan for the Sheller Road property include a park-like play area, as well as street, curb and gutter improvements, as well as covering the SVID ditch located nearby. The developers had also hoped to build a professional family counseling services office on the property to further enhance the new neighborhood. \"The area in question is listed as a transitional residential area on your existing comprehensive land management plan,\" said Robert Probst, the Diocese's development coordinator. The Burns' Sheller Road property is flanked by CanAm Steel, an auto wrecking yard, a farm shop, businesses, a school, a church, as well as some residences. \"The area is of the proper size for our proposal,\" Probst said, adding the funding is in place for what the housing service expects will be a 5 million development. \"It has the potential of creating a neighborhood style environment,\" added James Carmody, an attorney for the Diocese. However, after asking many questions regarding the scope of the project, and even agreeing it was an attractive proposal, the planning commissioners decided the proposal didn't suit the neighborhood in question. The Commission voted 4-2 for the annexation, but chose to recommend the R-2 designation as being more in keeping with the city's development needs. The commissioners encouraged the Diocese to continue with its proposal under the R-2 zone requirements. \"It is better for the community that the proposed annexation area be zoned R-2, medium density residential,\" said Commissioner Barry Weaver, who made the motion for the annexation and zoning use. The Diocese developers will however, have to seek a variance from the city's Board of Adjustment in order to allow it to proceed as currently proposed. In September, the Alderwood City Council had suggested the area be zoned ranchette, but the Commission felt the area is more suited to the medium density designation. The Planning Commission's annexation and zoning recommendation now goes before the State Boundary Review Board for Alderwood County. It may be several months before the commission learns of the board's decision, said City Attorney Bruce Rinz"}
{"Id":"1101242407492","Title":"City council learns some are against privatizing public works","Author":"John Panni","Time":"11/10/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"The Alderwood City Council has said all along that it can't hurt to at least hear presentations from different companies about privatizing the city's public works department in order to save taxpayers money. This past Monday night, Council heard an earful from several residents who adamantly oppose privatizing city services. The city is currently in talks with three companies about possibly privatizing Alderwood's public works department. Council is expected to address the matter later this year or early next year. Alderwood resident Bruce Epps told Council he has spoken with a number of residents who are against privatizing city services. \"If you have researched this at all, you have found a lot of towns with problems,\" said Epps. Epps cited the fact that the City of Bremerton recently took back operation of its water and sewer system from a private firm. Epps said Bremerton officials took back the system because the private firm left operations in disarray. Epps said residents in Bremerton had to endure a 12 percent increase in water and sewer rates every year during the four years the service was operated by a private firm. \"We don't want to take this out of house,\" said Epps in regards to privatizing Alderwood's public works department. Epps cautioned Council members that they are going to meet opposition to privatizing city services. \"I think you are going to find a lot of people irate over it,\" said Epps. Jay Alvarez expressed to Council that operating such services as water and sewer should fall under the responsibility of the government. Alvarez said that privatizing the public works department may lead to a lower quality of water being distributed to city residents. Alvarez also said he feels that national companies don't have a stake in the smaller communities, such as Alderwood, and won't do as good a job. \"You guys have a duty here,\" said Alvarez. \"We definitely need to look into this deeper.\" Councilwoman Jennie Angel said she has received a number of negative comments from community members about privatization. \"I haven't had one citizen approach me who thinks it is a good idea,\" said Angel. \"The citizens of Alderwood are not pleased and we need to listen to our citizens.\" Councilman John Torch pointed out the city's governing body is simply considering options, and asked how does it hurt to hear presentations from the different companies. Torch said the city has no idea what the cost benefits to privatizing the public works department will be for residents. \"The way to know is to have (these) firms make a presentation,\" said Torch. Torch added that Council will be looking for citizen input when the time arrives. Sandra Martinez, who is a small business owner in Alderwood, said she likes being able to know she can quickly get the assistance of the local public works department and doesn't want to see a private firm come into town. Martinez said she doesn't think it is fair to the employees of the public works department, their families, residents and business owners to be in a waiting mode while decisions are being made about privatizing the public works department. Wayne Johnson, teamsters representative for the public works department, presented Council with a letter from the wastewater manager in Bremerton dated Oct. 13, 2004. Johnson read the letter to Council, detailing how privatization would be a mistake. The letter detailed how the residents of Alderwood would be the \"losers\" if Council did decide to privatize the public works department. Mayor Rex Luthor told the audience that staff is currently dealing with the matter and will be making a presentation to Council at a later date. Luthor said at which time Council will be taking into consideration all of the public's concerns about privatization. Epps ended the discussion by saying this won't be the last time Council hears from the public about privatizing city services"}
{"Id":"1101242407742","Title":"Council expresses concerns with Chamber","Author":"John Panni","Time":"11/10/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"The Alderwood City Council held the first of its annual budget study sessions Tuesday night, but someone forgot to tell the Alderwood Chamber of Commerce about the get-together. The chamber was scheduled to make its annual presentation to Council for funding in 2005. The city allocates funding to the chamber out of tourism tax dollars. In the 2005 budget draft, the city has 40,000 allocated for the local chamber of commerce. The money in the tourism fund is raised through a hotel/motel tax and is specifically earmarked to promote tourism. But due to a communication snafu on the city's part, the chamber was not present at last night's meeting. Alderwood City Manager Tom Rockford said he would try to schedule the chamber during one of the coming budget sessions. Despite chamber officials not being present, several Council members didn't let the moment pass and voiced some concerns they have with the chamber and its activities. The main thrust of Tuesday night's conversation dealt with Sunshine Days, which the chamber significantly downsized this past year. Councilman Jim Sarducci said he would like to find a way to help Sunshine Days with tourism dollars. Sarducci said he believes Sunshine Days is an important part of the community that should be promoted. Rockford replied by saying Council and the chamber need to discuss that situation more in-depth. Mayor Rex Luthor wanted to look at the agreement with the chamber in two different areas. The mayor said first there was the budget portion of the contract Council needs to look at, and then the actual agreement. Luthor said based on what happened with the chamber and community events in 2004, he wanted to see a list of activities the chamber had planned for 2005. Council agreed with Luthor's request. \"I think the Council was really caught off guard when the chamber decided to not have Sunshine Days,\" said Luthor. Councilman Tom Seeger noted some personal concerns he has with the local chamber. Seeger said he doesn't see much, if any, business at his downtown bed and breakfast inn from community events sponsored by the Alderwood chamber. Seeger went on to say that his inn is full from Prosser events and even some Grandview community activities. Seeger said as the owner of an inn, he should be seeing more return from the local chamber. Seeger said he and other hotel/motel owners agreed to charge an additional tax to generate the tourism funds that go towards funding the chamber. Luthor and Sarducci agreed with Seeger's point. Sarducci said that many Upper Valley events promote tourism and Alderwood should be looking at ways to attract those same tourists to the community. Councilman John Torch said he wanted to see the chamber promote use of the Centennial Square more and work with downtown businesses as chamber officials had promised. \"We have got some questions to ask (of the chamber),\" said Torch. Rockford said he will be talking with chamber officials about Council concerns"}
{"Id":"1101242407976","Title":"Beyond The Norm-Mel","Author":"Mel Sacher","Time":"11/10/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"The other day I was listening to Tim Eyman, yes, Washington's king of initiatives, as he was speaking at the University of Washington. Although I think the guy is a bit of a nut, there were some things he was saying with which I had to agree. He said the whole reason he fought for the initiative process is because he believes that people shouldn't just elect public officials and then just let them run free in their decision-making process. Eyman said he believes people should be continuously active in making decisions that affect their everyday lives. This got me thinking. Shouldn't that be the same for city government? Shouldn't we have a say in what happens with our city services, such as the ambulance? Especially when the council doesn't necessarily represent the opinions of the community. There has been talk of privatizing the Alderwood ambulance service for months. I haven't heard one person (except for the city council) say, \"Yes! Let's get rid of the ambulance service!\" In the time I've been with this newspaper I've never heard anyone complain that the ambulance service in this town is not doing its job. I've heard plenty of complaints about neighboring communities' private ambulance services. I haven't always worked in a community with a public ambulance service. When living in Newport, Ore. the county was serviced by a private ambulance service. They had a large, beautiful station that they responded from and answered calls at all points of the county. The service even had a satellite office to help minimize the response time to calls. What sticks out in my mind is one of the last major accidents I covered while living in Newport. The accident occurred in Lincoln City on Highway 101. The ambulance showed up to assist the fire department and haul the injured to the hospital for treatment. The ambulance, which was the only one available for this major accident, left the scene, but they were not able to haul all of the injured, so they left a man behind in the road bleeding. The man didn't need a backboard or any other kind of special apparatus, but since his car was totaled he did need a ride. Not knowing how long the ambulance would be, the city firefighters/emergency workers gave the man a ride to the hospital, where he was treated. For those who don't know, there is a lot of paperwork the emergency medical technicians and paramedics have to do once they reach the hospital. Some times they are tied up for quite some time. The city emergency workers at this particular accident had no idea how long it would be before another ambulance arrived on scene. The next thing you know, the city was being sued by the ambulance service. The reason they sued was because of a loss of revenue. The company lost the money it would have billed the man for the ride to the hospital. Is that what we want? Do we want the ambulance service and city in a situation where they could be sued because an outside company lost money due to a lack of responders? Ambulance services are often called \"first responders,\" which would indicate that they are some of the first people on the scene of an accident or at a medical emergency call. But that isn't always the case. When speaking to a Grandview resident, she said the Alderwood ambulance service arrived at her home for a medical emergency before her local private service. She now wants her family to call Alderwood first if any other medical emergencies arise at her house. If that's what we have in store with a private ambulance service, and if you look back at the history of Alderwood before the start of the public service, you would find similar tales, than I, for one, don't want it! Why is it that the best services offered by this town are on the city council's chopping block? That makes no sense! Financially speaking, the council may think it looks good on paper, but we're talking about the quality of life for the whole community. For a council that says it is so concerned with quality of life issues, why don't they look at some of the basic ones, such as the police, fire, water, sewer and parks and recreation. These are all services that are better when the community has direct control over them, not when they are farmed out to some conglomerate, whose first concern is the bottom line. The council may not see these departments as offering quality of life services, but I tell you what, if it came down to whether I want a proven ambulance service available to tend to my emergency needs or spending taxpayer money on the removal of a feed lot, I think I'll opt for the ambulance service that's currently in place. I think that what the council is forgetting is that quality of life is just that...it's living. The living, breathing, walking people of this community are what are important. Sure, it would be great if we didn't have the cow smell that wafts into town every once in a while, but if we don't have the critical services to help the people of the community, then why are we living here? . Mel Sacher can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or e-mail msacher@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101242429133","Title":"Alderwood City Council Briefs","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"11/9/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"1-Column Council holds off on renewing liquor license The Alderwood City Council Monday night opted to hold off on approving a liquor license renewal request. Mayor Rex Luthor said Council needs more information on a liquor license renewal request from Ricos Tacos Guadalajara, 809 Alderwood Valley Highway, before it could grant its approval. Council did grant the liquor license renewal requests from Playa Azul Sports Bar, 627 East Edison Avenue; Mariscos Playa Azul Restaurant, 633 East Edison Avenue; and El Senor Camaron, 1501 Alderwood Valley Highway. Council to begin collective bargaining process with police guild Alderwood City Manager Tom Rockford informed the City Council Monday night that the Alderwood Police Officers Guild had contacted him to begin contract negotiations for 2005. Rockford said he wanted to meet with Council in executive session to discuss the initial strategy the city is taking in contract negotiations. Council did meet in executive session on Monday night to discuss the initial strategy the city will be taking in contract negotiations, but released no details. The city and the police guild are scheduled to hold their first talks on Tuesday, Nov. 16. Under an ordinance the City Council adopted earlier this year, the city will release all details of collective bargaining sessions with city employees' unions to the public in open session with the exception of the initial strategy discussion"}
{"Id":"1101242429430","Title":"Grandview Council continues to hash out 2005 budget","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"11/9/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"GRANDVIEW - Grandview City Council is going to have some tough decisions to make as it gets ready to hash out the 2005 budget. Monday night, Council members listened and asked questions about the proposed current expense fund budget, which includes the municipal court, planning and economic development budgets. Monday marked the Council's second budget session. During the budget sessions Council members have been listening to department heads and other city employees explain the budgets being proposed for 2005. As the budget sessions continue through November, Council will begin to decide how it will try to make up the 190,000 budget shortfall the city is facing next year. Looking at the current expense fund, the areas where the proposed budgets for 2005 are seeing the most significant increases include municipal court and planning. The proposed budget for the municipal court for 2005 is set to see a more than 17 percent increase, going from 132,010 budgeted in 2004 to 154,790 in 2005. That's a difference of more than 22,000. Grandview City Administrator Jim Sewell noted that the most significant changes in the 2005 budget for the municipal court fall under professional services. City Clerk Anita Posse said professional services include the cost of everything from a public defender to an interpreter. She added that in 2005 the City will be working to find a new interpreting service, which will likely cost more. Posse added that about 5,000 was added to the municipal court budget in 2005 to cover the cost of a process server. She noted that currently when the city needs to serve papers the Grandview Police Department is called in to do it, which can be a conflict of interest. Sewell noted that over the last few years there has been a strong push as far as municipal courts are concerned to forge a separation between the court and the local police department. \"Municipal courts are another one of those unfunded mandates,\" Sewell said. \"The rules are set and you have to play by their rules.\" Mayor Mike Bren asked Sewell if the cost of a process server was something that could come out of the funds that will be available to the city thanks to Proposition #1, which was passed by voters last week. Sewell noted that it would fall under the law and justice category. Another council member asked City Treasurer John Myers how much revenue the municipal court has been generating. Myers noted that over the years the revenue being collected through the municipal court has continued to gradually increase with more than 80,000 in fines and forfeitures being expected in 2005. The other area that saw the most significant increase in the proposed budget for 2005 is planning. The planning budget was set at 20,850 in 2004, but is scheduled to see an increase to 29,740 in 2005, which is an increase of more than 42 percent. Sewell noted that the increase in the planning budget is due to the volume of planning activity the city has seen over the course of the past year or so. He noted that the city has seen a lot more annexation and subdivision activity recently. According to Sewell, year-to-date revenue generated through the planning department in 2004 is just under 20,000. He noted that the objective is to have the city's planning activities pay for themselves, adding that city officials are currently looking at adjusting fees for 2005. \"That should hopefully take care of that,\" Sewell said. Sewell said the city currently contracts out for planning services, utilizing the Alderwood Valley Conference of Governments. He noted that if the city continues to grow there could come a time in the future when it will be more budget-savvy to hire a city planner. He added that is something that could still be five years away. Sewell told Council that at this point in time the city isn't seeing any evidence of development slowing down. There were areas of the current expense fund budget that are proposed to see decreases in their 2005 budgets, including the areas of city council and the city treasurer. The city council portion of the budget is looking at a 2.84 percent decrease from 2004. In 2004 the city council budget was set at 28,560, a number that is proposed to decrease to 27,750 in 2005. Sewell noted that city council is an area of the budget that typically remains about the same from year to year. The decreases in the city council budget come under the categories of communications, travel and advertising. When it comes to the city treasurer, in 2004 the budget was set at 60,880. In 2005 that number is proposed to decrease by just under 3 percent to 59,090. Myers explained the decrease comes from a slight change in the wages and benefits coming out of the budget area, as well as the elimination of professional services. In 2004, 1,700 was budgeted for professional services and to date none of the funds have been used. Grandview City Council will take another look at the city's budget Monday, Nov. 15, during the study session preceding their regular city council meeting. The study session will begin at 5:30 p.m"}
{"Id":"1101242429898","Title":"Lady 'Hounds remain undefeated as they head into State tournament","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"11/8/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"EPHRATA - The Grandview Lady Greyhounds continued their winning ways over the weekend, earning the number one seed at the State Championship tournament. Saturday, the Lady 'Hounds faced off against Ephrata and Ki-Be at the District tournament. Grandview defeated both teams in three, winning over Ephrata by scores of 25-18, 25-13, 25-15 and beating Ki-Be by scores of 28-26, 25-19, 25-18. \"They played well,\" Grandview Coach John LaFever said of his team. \"Everyone was pretty excited.\" LaFever noted that the Lady 'Hounds put forth a good team effort Saturday. \"All of the players did all of their parts well,\" he said. \"It was a good District championship.\" LaFever said going into the tournament he knew Ephrata was going to be a tough team to beat, only because they were playing on their home court. \"That's a little bit of an advantage,\" he noted. However, it was an advantage that ended up not working out for Ephrata, with Grandview powering past them. Helping the Lady 'Hounds win over Ephrata and Ki-Be were a number of Grandview players, including senior Danelle Cowan who finished the day with 36 kills, 34 digs, 9 blocks and 2 service aces. Senior Valentina Solis finished with 18 kills, 9 blocks, 4 aces and 21 service points, senior Mari Cornejo had 4 kills and 6 blocks, Chante Bottineau had 3 kills, 57 assists and 18 digs, Kealey Johnston had 8 kills, 47 digs, 3 aces and 17 service points, Angie Cabrera had 2 kills, 37 digs and 3 aces, and Tonhya Wysong had 63 digs. LaFever said he can't remember a time when the Grandview team went this far into the postseason with no game losses. He noted that even in 2000, when his team placed second at State, they lost their first game of the District tournament. \"So they're doing ok,\" LaFever said of this year's team. The Lady 'Hounds will take to the court for the State tournament Friday, where they will face off against the team from Steilacoom. The State tournament will be held at the Yakima SunDome"}
{"Id":"1101242430180","Title":"Grandview City Council Briefs","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"11/5/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"1-Column Estrada recognized as Youth of the Month GRANDVIEW - Monday night, the Grandview City Council recognized Jaime Estrada as the recipient of the November Mayor's Youth of the Month award. Estrada is a senior at Compass High School. He was nominated for the award by Crystal Felman, a counselor at the school. Felman said Estrada maintains a positive attitude and is honest, noting that he found a money order written for a large sum of money in the Westside Market parking lot and turned the money order into the staff at the school. Council approves property tax levy for 2005 GRANDVIEW - Monday night, Grandview City Council members approved the property tax levy for 2005, identifying 1.1 million of expected revenue for next year. City Treasurer John Myers explained that every year the city has to levy property taxes so the Alderwood County treasurer can assess them. He noted that the property taxes levied by the city in 2005 will see a 1 percent increase over this year. In 2004, Grandview levied 987,029 in property taxes. The 1 percent increase will mean an additional 9,870 of revenue for the city. The remaining 104,000, which makes up the difference between the amount levied in 2004 and the amount to be levied in 2005, comes from new construction in Grandview. G'view Council approves specifications for well project GRANDVIEW - The Grandview City Council voted to approve specifications for the bid process involved with the creation of new well #4. The project includes the decommissioning of the original well, as well as the drilling, casing and testing of the new well. It also includes the construction of a new pump house for well #4. Council pushes forward with charitable solicitations ordinance GRANDVIEW - Monday night, the Grandview City Council gave its nod to City Administrator Jim Sewell and City Attorney Jack Maxwell on the subject of charitable solicitations. Sewell noted that several months ago members of Grandview's banking community brought a concern to Council regarding charitable solicitors standing outside of their facilities. He noted that they were standing on public right-of-way, blocking the sidewalk as they asked for donations. Sewell said the city took a look at a solicitations ordinance in place in Alderwood and were working to adapt it to fit the community of Grandview. The ordinance would require charitable groups to register with the city in order to be able to solicit donations on public right-of-ways. Mayor Mike Bren noted that when the groups register the ordinance should be written so the charitable organizations have to provide proof of their 501(c)3 status. Bren suggested that Council take another look at the proposed ordinance after the first of the year. Council approves amendment to correct sewer rates GRANDVIEW - Grandview City Council members voted to approve an amendment to the resolution originally passed in May 2004, which set sewer rates for residential and public users within the city during the irrigation season. City Clerk Anita Posse noted that after the resolution was originally approved she inadvertently inputted the wrong rate schedule into the computer. The amendment corrects the rate change. G'view city officials discuss fate of motorized scooters GRANDVIEW - Monday night, Grandview Police Chief Dave Charvet told Council members that he has been discussing the proposed motorized scooter ordinance with his staff, noting that he knows the Council wants Grandview to be a scooter friendly community. However, he explained that looking at what other communities are doing, including total scooter bans and banning the vehicles in the downtown corridor, he doesn't know if being scooter friendly is something that is going to be possible. Charvet suggested Council hold off on implementing a motorized scooter ordinance, until it sees what the results are of the newly adopted ordinances in other surrounding communities. \"Let's see what the impact is,\" Charvet said. Council agreed to put off making any decision on motorized scooters until more information is known"}
{"Id":"1101242430414","Title":"Gregoire inches closer to being named governor","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"11/5/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Exactly who will be leading the state in 2005 is still up in the air, although Democrat Christine Gregoire has seen her lead increase since ballots were first counted following Tuesday's general election. According to the latest ballot counts Gregoire has taken nearly an 18,000 vote lead over her opponent, Republican Dino Rossi, who had 1,062,427 votes as of this morning at 8:30 a.m. When votes were first being tabulated following Tuesday's election, Gregoire was in the lead, but less than 1,000 votes separated the two candidates. Gregoire was listed as having 48.96 percent of the vote, compared to 48.94 percent for Rossi. As of Friday morning, Gregoire is in the lead with 49.35 percent of the vote and 1,080,382 ballots marked in her favor. Rossi is listed as having 48.53 percent of the vote. Since initial counts were reported by the Alderwood Daily News Wednesday morning, little has changed in other races that affect residents of the Alderwood Valley. Democrat Patty Murray has maintained her commanding lead over Republican George R. Nethercutt in the U.S. Senate race. As of this morning, Murray had 53.9 percent of the vote, compared to 44 percent for Nethercutt. In the race for U.S. Representative, although more votes have been counted, things remain very similar to Wednesday's initial results. Republican Doc Hastings is still in the lead with 120,444 votes, compared to 65,998 votes for Democrat Sandy Matheson. It was reported Wednesday that Hastings had 62.6 percent of the vote, versus 37.7 percent for Matheson. Those numbers have moved very little with Hastings maintaining 62.73 percent of the vote and Matheson having 37.26 percent. In the races for the 15th Legislative District positions, Representative Bruce Chandler, who ran unopposed for the position one seat, received 12,369 votes. In the race between Republican Dan Newhouse and Democrat Michael H. Kepcha for position two, Newhouse has increased his lead since Wednesday. As of this morning, Newhouse had 10,073 votes, which is up from the 8,866 votes that had been tallied in his favor earlier this week. Kepcha, as of this morning, had 4,426 votes, up a few votes since Wednesday's 4,023 vote tally. When it comes to Alderwood County commissioners, Republican Mike Leita still has a commanding lead over Democrat Earl S. Lee in the race for the district one seat. Leita has received 35,209 votes, compared to 14,852 votes for Lee. In the race for the district two seat, Republican and incumbent Tom Camay has increased his initial lead over Democrat Paul George. It was reported Wednesday that Camay held a more than 6,000 vote lead over the Yakima mayor. As of this morning, his lead over George was sitting at 7,907 votes. Camay now holds 48.32 percent of the vote, compared to 33.48 percent for George. Maintaining their leads, which were announced following initial vote counts, are Lt. Governor Brad Owen, Secretary of State Sam Reed, Mike Murphy for state treasurer, Brian Sonntog for state auditor, Rob McKenna for state attorney general and Terry Bergeson for state superintendent of public instruction. Results also remain the same following Wednesday's initial report of the outcome of several initiatives and measures. Election results won't be certified by county canvassing boards until Nov. 17, with the Secretary of State certifying results sometime before Dec. 2"}
{"Id":"1101242430883","Title":"Interlocal agreement yet to be formalized","Author":"John Panni","Time":"11/5/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Alderwood School District Superintendent Dr. Aaron Bones suggested that he and Alderwood City Manager Tom Rockford sit down and talk about the interlocal agreement the two sides have with one another. The dialogue took place during Thursday night's joint meeting between the Alderwood City Council and the Alderwood School Board. Bones told members of both sides that the district has not signed the interlocal agreement, which is renewed annually, but will continue to honor in good faith until the matter is resolved. The interlocal agreement between the city and the school district states that both sides can use one another's facilities. Bones said that he wanted to discuss including the district being able to use the community center and the city pool in the interlocal agreement, both of which are not included in the current contract. School board member Arthur Wells expressed his concern over an issue that arose a couple of years ago where the district paid 6,000 to the city to use the pool for the girls swim team. Jones said he felt that was an unfair amount the district had to pay, considering the city has open access to all district facilities. Mayor Rex Luthor couldn't agree more with the suggestions of Bones at Thursday night's meeting. Luthor wanted to even include the district being able to utilize SunnyView Park. \"I think we should have everything in there,\" said Luthor. The two sides are scheduled to sit down and iron out the details of the interlocal agreement"}
{"Id":"1101242431383","Title":"Smart Beat","Author":"Jamie Smart","Time":"11/5/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"I'm not a long line waiter. The express lines at my favorite grocery store were made for me. In fact, I get upset at those people who have 11 items in the 10 or less line and haven't even started getting out their money for pay for their express purchases by the time they reached the check-out clerk. I've been known to get a little verbal about my displeasure at having to wait more than a minute or two to buy my bagel and candy bar. Of course, that could just be hunger pains talking, but mostly it's because I'm in a fire truck hurry to meet a deadline and my fire-breathing editor is hot on my trail. But I digress. I am an impatient person in my own right. I like to get in and do my thing and get out. Wham bang. Granted, in Alderwood rarely if ever do I have to wait more than a minute or two in a \"long\" line. So, I really don't have much of an opportunity to loiter in a line of more than 10 people. So imagine my surprise at reaching my polling place at 5:30 p.m. this past Tuesday night to discover that not only did I have to wait in line, I had two lines to stand in and both were really long. My daughter Sarah and I waited until after work to go vote, thinking we would be back home in time to our favorite make-over television program. Boy were we wrong. We stood in line to get our access code, then we joined our fellow voters in a second line to wait until an \"e-slate\" became available. Even though I couldn't avoid the election night line, I have to say I was delighted to stand for nearly 40 minutes, moving ahead at a snail's pace. Why? I was standing in line to vote in my eighth presidential election and there were 527 people ahead of me who also wanted to vote in the election. Many of those voters were people I knew and so we visited to pass the time. Many of those \"late in the day\" voters were also first-time voters, needing a little help to understand how to use the machines, a situation which also slowed the process. But I'm not complaining about standing largely in one place for nearly 40 minutes. It was the first time I have experienced election line waiting in more than 30 years of casting my vote. I chatted with a lot of people Tuesday night and we all agreed the voter turnout was historic. Thanks to an gargantuan voter registration effort, more people turned out for the 2004 presidential election than in the last hotly contested race in 1972. Voter turnout in Washington state was indeed the highest in history, according to Secretary of State Sam Reed. He had predicted an 80 percent turnout, but I think Tuesday night's turnout surprised even him. I know it surprised me and my friend, Elaine Kirk, who has worked the local polling place for most of the past 12 years. By the time I got to the head of the line at about 6:10 p.m., Kirk told me 527 Alderwooders had already been through the line to cast their choices. \"Most years we're lucky to get 100 voters all day,\" she said. \"This is terrific,\" I said, and she agreed. Of course, worrying about the election outcomes being announced by the national media troubled a few of us in the election line. \"I just hope Dan Rather doesn't name a winner before I get into the voting booth,\" said one man. But because of the huge snafu in the 2000 Bush-Gore presidential election, Rather and his cronies were very cautious about predicting a winner too early in the evening. I appreciated that. Even though I sort of knew who would win the Bush-Kerry race. I voted in my first presidential election in 1972, and I must say I voted for the other guy in what was to become known as the Nixon years. McGovern obviously didn't win and no one ever heard from him again. Being in college at the time, I was surrounded by hundreds of idealistic, young voters marking our first adult ballot. It was a pretty heady time. It was the middle of the feminist movement, the middle of the Vietnam era and the voting age had just been lower from 21 to 18. We were making a difference, we were celebrating our constitutional right to express ourselves and we turned out in droves to make our mark. It's been nearly 30 years since election turnouts have been as huge or as exciting as the presidential election of 1972. I'd almost forgotten that standing in line to cast my vote could be an exciting and moving experience. I hope that the trend to be involved in the electoral process continues. I pray that those new voters gain a sense of purpose and acknowledge the power we have in making choices which truly affect us all. I just hope Tuesday night's monster turnout is not a fluke. I hope all of the newly franchised voters turn out again and again. I sincerely hope those of us who have become cynical about the value of our vote view this election with a renewed sense of faith in the system. My vote counts. For that, I'll stand in a line to prove it"}
{"Id":"1101242451430","Title":"Victory over Cascade sends Grandview to second round of District play","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"11/5/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"GRANDVIEW - The Grandview High School volleyball team didn't let a little thing like playing in the first game of Districts shake their confidence Thursday night. Instead, the Lady Greyhounds pushed forward with their season-long winning streak, sending the Cascade Kodiaks home without a game win. The Grandview team swept past Cascade, winning by scores of 25-22, 25-13, 25-19. Grandview Coach John LaFever said going into the match his team knew they would be faced with some tough competition. \"We knew they had some really athletic girls and some girls who jumped really well,\" LaFever said. He added that they also knew that Cascade had beat some teams that were ranked above them and had recently been in some really close matches. He noted that Cascade had beaten Omak and barely lost to Chelan. Although they knew it would be a hard fought match, the Lady 'Hounds went into it with a plan - play consistently. \"We want to be really consistent when we play,\" LaFever said. And consistency is what helped the Lady 'Hounds rally past the Kodiaks. According to LaFever, both Tonhya Wysong and Valentina Solis kept up their games, working hard against the Cascade team. He said going into the match, the team was also looking for senior Danelle Cowan to step up her serves, which she was able to do. Wysong finished the night with 21 digs; Solis had 12 kills, 6 digs, 7 blocks and 9 service points; and Cowan had 13 kills, 11 digs, 3 blocks and 11 service points. Also helping out the 'Hounds were Angie Cabrera with 11 digs; Mari Cornejo with 6 kills and 6 digs; setter Chante Bottineau with 30 assists and 6 digs; Jessica Gonzalez with 1 ace; and Kealey Johnston with 4 kills, 15 digs and 9 service points. The Lady 'Hounds are now just one match away from playing at the State tournament. However, before they can look to State, the Grandview team will have to face off against Ephrata in the second round of District action. Grandview will take to the court Saturday at noon in Ephrata. The winner of the match will advance to State, which will be played in Yakima"}
{"Id":"1101242451711","Title":"Commissioner needed","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"11/4/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Interested in helping shape the direction of the City of Alderwood's parks and recreation programs? Then you're needed as on the seven-member Alderwood Parks and Recreation Commission. \"We currently have a vacancy on the commission, created when former Commissioner Andie Bieber located out of the area,\" said Don Stiles, Alderwood Parks and Recreation Department director. For the past several months, the Commission has been unable to hold a meeting due to a lack of a quorum, he said. Stiles said while the search for a new commissioner has been underway for several months, only one application has been submitted. \"We'd like to see a few more potential candidates before a decision is made,\" he explained. The commission members are appointed by Alderwood Mayor Rex Luthor, he added. Commissioners meet once a month to hear reports about parks and recreation department programs. \"Commissioners offer recommendations to the City Council concerning parks and recreation budgetary and program needs,\" Stiles said. \"The time commitment for candidates is the once a month meeting held at 5:30 p.m. on the third Wednesday of the month,\" he explained. Persons interested in volunteering their time to oversee Alderwood's diverse youth and adult recreation programs and park facilities may pick up an application at the city parks and recreation office, 818 E. Edison Ave"}
{"Id":"1101242452180","Title":"Forum","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"11/3/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"1-Column No to privatizing Why are we giving our city jobs to out of county, possibly out of state companies? Why are we going to pay to privatize our water and sewage system? Do you, the residents of Alderwood, realize that if we contract out these services, that they come with a price. No company is going to work for free. There will be a fee for their services and whom do you think will have to come up with the additional money? We will. Our monthly water bills will rise 10 to 25 percent overnight. I don't know anyone who can afford that. If you think about it, I see brown lawns and higher prices in the stores and markets in our future. Think about it, higher utility bills for business owners mean higher prices for us, the consumers. I guess my lawn won't be greener next year. So much for beautification awards. Has anyone thought of the safety issue involving out of state/country companies. Think about it. Do their employees go through background checks? They won't be drinking or using our water. This issue needs to be put to a vote by the residents of the city. We should be the ones to decide if this is right for us. We have a right to voice our opinions on issues that directly affect us. We need local people to work on our local water and sewage issues. Who knows our needs or understands us better than local folk. I don't want to wait a week for local services because I'm on a waiting list. Come on Alderwood, stand up for our city workers and their families. Nobody knows this city and its needs better than the employees who work and live here. No outside company can replace their knowledge or love for our city and its residents. Stand up Alderwood, and start using your voices. Only we can say no to our city employees being put out of jobs. /s/ Patty S. Denson, Alderwood Councilman s actions questioned I have been reading the Alderwood Daily News this past week with great interest and have an uncontrollable urge to respond to the articles in the Oct. 26 edition and the letter to the editor in the Oct. 27 edition about and by our own egostistical Councilman John Torch. First, I believe that it would be appropriate for me to thank City Manager Tom Rockford for giving me back my first amendment rights. I have sat through many council meetings over the past years and one thing that you learn very early on as a city employee, you do not publicly or privately for that matter disagree with some of our council members. The personal issues developed and the vindictiveness of some of these people may take years for them to bring to fruition the retaliation that they feel you so richly deserve, but it will happen. The article in the paper in reference to the new casino being established by Rob and Sue Rice and the response from Torch once again showed the immaturity of the councilman. The Rice's did in the past come before the city council asking permission to open a mini-casino next to or as a part of the bowling alley they currently own. The council, right or wrong, after much public input was against the operation of mini-casinos inside the city limits. Now, after what I would assume was a lot of hard work and being able to gain the financial backing needed to open this casino, Rob and Sue will be opening this business venture outside of the city limits and outside of the control of the city council. Congratulations. The Rice's have pursued their American dream and established a business that they are passionate about. They jumped through all of the required hoops and gained approval of the county commissioners, elected by the people of Alderwood County to serve their interests. But, they failed to ask approval of John Torch. During the unprovoked outburst by this councilman at the Oct. 25 meeting, there were several unsubstantiated statements made that I for one would like to see the data and the background to back up the claims. I, for one, am tired of seeing our council make statements shooting from the hip and not having the facts to back the claims up. Regarding the county commissioners hiding the fact that they were allowing the use of the building in question as a mini-casino I believe the agenda for the commissioners meeting was published as required by law. I believe that we do not pay our county employees to hand deliver agenda items that they believe may be of interest to the councilman, so he may advise them of the proper disposition of that item. Councilman Torch stated that Alderwood County hid the fact that it was going to lower the gambling tax for the Rice's. Maybe it should have dawned on the councilman that the Rice's or any other citizen has the right to request a change in taxation or fees before any governing body. It is then up to the elected officials for the jurisdiction to make the decision on what is appropriate, not the council in Alderwood or any one council person not elected to serve in that jurisdiction. I do not remember our council asking permission of the county commissioners to change the fees for the installation of windows after one complaint from one business owner, nor do I remember the council seeking advice from other jurisdictions on the appropriateness of electronic advertisements on ice cream wagons, again for just one complaint. Councilman Torch states that the new casino will dump on the City of Grandview and the City of Alderwood's fire departments and police departments for coverage. For the councilman's information, the police protection for this building will be provided by the Alderwood County Sheriff's Office. Granted, should there be a very large incident, the Sheriff's Office may ask for assistance or mutual aid from Alderwood or Grandview. It's done all of the time and we at times receive mutual aid. Look at all the logos on the doors of the parade entries during our Christmas parade. As for fire protection, Alderwood County Fire District #5, stations 13 (Alderwood) and 14 (Grandview) would provide the fire coverage for the building. Should they need more assistance they would call station 15 (Mabton) or others. Should they need some specialized equipment, such as a ladder truck, they would call the City of Toppenish, City of Grandview or City of Prosser. The cities of Alderwood and Grandview share volunteer firefighters with the fire district, should they need additional help they would not call the City of Alderwood because all the available volunteers would already be commmitted to the fire district. If Councilman Torch is referring to EMS calls, the fire district again would send an aid vehicle to the call. Should they need an ambulance, they would call either the Alderwood Fire Department or Prosser Ambulance. Runs generate revenue, enough said. As for Councilman Torch' comments about SunnyView Park, go back and check the minutes of the council meetings and budget sessions. Alderwood County simply said it could no longer afford that park and it would be closing. The City of Alderwood jumped in and said they would gladly take over the park. Was it a good thing? Here again, it is all in the taxpayers' personal views and perspective. However, no one forced us to take the park. According to the councilman, the three major newspapers that cover the council meetings can never seem to report the story accurately. Is it that they cannot or do not write the story in the same frame of mind that he is? My suggestion would be for Councilman Torch to pre-write the stories he would like to see them print, hand them out prior to the council meeting and then and only then will they have the opportunity to take the same slant on issues the councilman seems to feel he has the right to demand. I would really like to comment on Torch' letter to the editor, but I believe I probably am well over the limit on the number of words I am allowed here. I think it is sufficient to say that his letter sounded like it was written in the fashion of a child's book. This well demonstrates Mr. Torch' belief in the average intelligence of the citizens of the community. According to his list of people and organizations that said \"you are wrong,\" Councilman Torch evidently never heard of the phrase, \"If enough people tell you that you are wrong, you probably are.\" /s/ Jim Stanton, Alderwood"}
{"Id":"1101242452461","Title":"Kerry concedes Presidential race Tuesday morning","Author":"John Panni","Time":"11/3/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"It looked as if the country was heading for a repeat of the 2000 Presidential election, but there will be no exhilarating counting of the chads or Supreme Court battles this time around. President George W. Bush won a second term this morning when Democratic challenger John Kerry called the Texas Republican just after 11 a.m. Eastern Standard Time to concede the 2004 election, according to a report from the Associated Press. Voters across the country went to bed last night without knowing who would be the next president of the United States. As of last night, the outcome of the Presidential election looked as if it would hinge on the outcome of Kerry challenging the election results in Ohio. Many political consultants last night were guessing Kerry would challenge the results of the Ohio election, demanding that the estimated 140,000 to 200,000 provisional ballots cast be counted. As of this morning, President Bush had 50.96 percent, or 2,783,655 votes, in Ohio, while Kerry had 2,653,005 votes, or 48.57 percent of all ballots cast. Many of the election problems in Ohio had to do with the number of new voters registered for the 2004 election, which numbered more than one million residents, according to the Ohio secretary of state. It can be surmised that Kerry probably conceded the 2004 election because many political figures felt that even if the provisional ballots were counted in Ohio, Kerry couldn't make-up the difference he trailed by. Kerry and his vice presidential running mate John Edwards did quite well in Washington, winning the state's 11 electoral votes. Kerry nabbed 52.5 percent of the vote in Washington. President Bush won Alderwood County, a heavily Republican area, with 28,663 votes, compared to the 19,220 ballots cast for Kerry. The President was also a huge winner in neighboring Benton County, where he garnered 31,611 votes to Kerry's 15,432. Much like 2000 Presidential candidate Al Gore, Kerry won the state of Washington thanks in large part to election results in King County. Kerry had 347,025 votes in the Seattle area compared to 182,011 for the Bush/Dick Cheney ticket. Independent candidate Ralph Nader received 13,729 votes in Washington state. Bush was able to secure a second term in the White House thanks in part to winning the state of Florida. A large Latino turnout in that state supported the President"}
{"Id":"1101242452711","Title":"Local couple encourages salute to Alderwood lawman Steve Evans","Author":"Jamie Smart","Time":"11/3/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"The American flag is flown proudly at the home of long-time Alderwood resident Ramon Bermudez of Reeves Way, 365 days a year. This week, after having learned of the death of Alderwood Police Sergeant Steve Evans, Bermudez has decided to lower his flag to half staff in honor of the 27-year veteran of the Alderwood Police Department. Evans, who died of an apparent heart attack while on a hunting trip this past Saturday, could always be relied upon to respond in a caring way to any calls in the Reeves Way neighborhood, said Bermundez's wife, Ofilia. \"We knew him as an officer, and he was always very nice,\" she said. Bermudez said he feels Evans' memory needs to be recognized by the lowering of the flag. \"I'm doing this as a sign of honor and respect to him and to all policemen,\" he said. \"I think all citizens who fly the American flag should lower the flag in his memory and as a show of support to Evans' wife and family,\" Bermudez said. Earlier this week, Mayor Rex Luthor ordered the lowering of flags at all city buildings in Evans' honor. Funeral services for Evans are planned to be held Saturday, Nov. 6, at 10 a.m"}
{"Id":"1101242453320","Title":"Murray retains U.S. Senate seat","Author":"John Panni","Time":"11/3/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Washington voters must still like the message of the lady who made a name for herself wearing tennis shoes and being a working mom. Patty Murray, a Democrat, was overwhelming re-elected to a six-year U.S. Senate term last night, as she defeated Republican challenger George Nethercutt. Election results this morning had Murray with 53.9 percent of all ballots cast (1,020,470 votes), compared with Nethercutt, who had 832,527 votes (44 percent). Murray basically took the election with her win in King County, where she had 344,702 votes compared with Nethercutt's 174,495 votes. Murray also won big in Snohomish County, beating Nethercutt by a little less than 26,000 votes. Murray won Thurston County by nearly 14,000 votes. Nethercutt was a winner in Alderwood County (26,236 votes). Murray garnered 21,204 votes in Alderwood County. Nethercutt also won huge in his native Spokane County with 94,930 votes compared with Murray's 61,998. Hastings vs. Matheson Fourth District Congressman Doc Hastings fended off a surprisingly strong challenge from political newcomer Sandy Matheson, a Democrat. In this morning's tallies, Hastings had 62.6 percent of all ballots cast (110,579 votes), compared with Matheson's 65,998 votes (37.7 percent). Hastings won Alderwood County with 27,623 votes. Matheson had 20,520 votes. Hastings, a Tri-Cities native, also won heavily in Benton County, taking 29,415 votes. Matheson had just over 17,000 votes in Benton County. Hastings didn't lose one of the 10 counties in his district. \"It's my privilege to serve as Central Washington's voice in Congress and I'm honored that the people have chosen me to represent them for another two years,\" said Hastings. \"I plan to build upon my record of service to families and communities so that our children and grandchildren can enjoy a happy, healthy and prosperous future right here in Central Washington.\" Gregoire vs. Rossi It looks as if the race for Washington state governor between Democrat Christine Gregoire and Republican Dino Rossi will go down to the wire. This morning's vote totals had the two running neck and neck, with Gregoire holding a slight edge. Gregoire had 908,077 votes (48.96 percent). Rossi so far has 907,691 votes (48.94 percent). Rossi has so far won 30 of the 39 counties in Washington state. But Gregoire is well ahead in the crucial King County counts with 305,281 votes compared to Rossi's 211,266 votes. Rossi easily defeated Gregoire in Alderwood County with 30,592 votes to her 16,892 votes. Rossi also won huge in Benton County with 32,118 votes to Gregoire's 14,258 votes. District 15 In other election results, Bruce Chandler was re-elected to his 15th legislative district seat. He ran unopposed. Dan Newhouse was a big winner in Alderwood County over Democratic challenger Michael Kepcha. The 15th District representative tallied 8,866 votes in the county, compared to Kepcha's 4,023 votes. County commission Mike Leita is the newest Alderwood County commissioner. The Republican took nearly 70 percent of the votes in his bid for the district No. 1 seat. Leita replaces long-time Commissioner Tim June, who decided not to seek re-election. Alderwood County Commissioner Tom Camay won his re-election bid, as he is more than 6,000 votes ahead of his nearest challenger, Yakima Mayor Paul George. In other state election news, voters re-elected Lt. Governor Brad Owen and Secretary of State Sam Reed. Mike Murphy won his bid for state treasurer. Brian Sonntag will continue as state auditor. It looks as if Rob McKenna will be the new state attorney general. State Superintendent of Public Instruction Terry Bergeson won her re-election bid, easily defeating Judith Billings, who was looking to reclaim the position she once held"}
{"Id":"1101242453570","Title":"Open Mike","Author":"John Panni","Time":"11/3/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"In case you didn't know, yesterday was perhaps the most important election to take place in recent memory, at least since the Franklin D. Roosevelt days. Like many, I woke up this morning trying to figure out what went on. I am trying to figure out if we should still have faith in Democracy. Do we really know what is best for us as a society or should we have all voted for Ralph Nader. I spent the night asking myself how difficult is it to count a vote? It is not rocket science. The biggest issue this morning is that there is still not officially a president of the United States. I mean, President Bush all but has the election in the bag, but the little state of Ohio is keeping us hanging. Votes are still being counted in Ohio, where over 200,000 jobs were lost during Bush's first term. It may be days before those votes are officially tabulated and a president is named, as both Bush and Kerry strive to get the necessary 270 electoral votes. I don't understand American voters. Why re-elect Bush? The economy is in the toilet. We are at war in a foreign country that doesn't really want us there and our national debt is only getting larger as we speak. In another year, we could all be collecting welfare and hoping we can pay our light bill because Bush just doesn't have a plan to get us back on track. To better illustrate what I am trying to say is that the light bulb is just not on for Bush and it is only going to get worse over the next four years. Remember this, I told you so. Let's look at some other election day issues. One Washington state issue that I found interesting was Initiative 884, which had to do with the creation of an education trust fund that would have pumped more money into education. I voted against this issue and I am glad the measure failed at the polls. The reason I am against this issue is that schools aren't putting out smarter kids. It doesn't matter how much money we throw at the schools, the job isn't getting done. School districts complain there isn't enough money to better the education for our children. Teachers complain they aren't getting paid enough money, but yet these are people who have one of the most desirable work schedules you will find. Who wouldn't want to work a six-hour day, only work 180 days out of each year and get to work with children? As a parent, I am not getting the bang for my buck from the educational system and I won't support any more initiatives, taxes or anything else that allocates more money until school districts start performing. I also voted against charter schools. Do we really need more oars in the water. School districts have a hard enough time adequately teaching our children now. Why add more confusion to the process? I didn't know anything about Initiative 297 heading to the polls, but who can really argue with a matter that allows for hazardous waste to be cleaned up. I was disappointed to see the issue with slot machines fail. I wanted something to do with my spare change. There is something all these people who are against gambling haven't realized. People who want to gamble are going to gamble. Why not put it close to home, instead of making me travel to Toppenish or Pendleton. Wait, I guess I can go to Rob and Sue Rice's new establishment out by the golf course and support Alderwood County with my money while having a fantastic steak dinner. Well, people, we really screwed up this election. I can hardly wait until next year when the City Council seats are up for grabs. . John Panni can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or email him at mPanni@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101242473477","Title":"Grandview Council begins tackling 2005 city budget","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"11/2/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"GRANDVIEW - Facing a budget shortfall of 190,000, Monday night Grandview City Council members rolled up their sleeves and got to work on the 2005 budget. Council members took the time last night to wade their way through the budget figures for several city departments, including the fire, police, animal control, library and parks and recreation departments. Each department head talked to Council about the numbers in their budget and where costs have shifted from the 2004 budget for the 2005 budget year. Grandview Police Chief Dave Charvet sat in front of Council to explain to them why the police department's budget is looking at an increase of about 9.6 percent over the 2004 budget. The total budget for the department for 2005 is sitting at 1,758,700. Charvet noted that most of the increase is accounted for with the rising cost of health care and increases in salaries. Charvet said for the past several years he has been asked to create the police department's budget without making any increases. When looking forward to 2005, Charvet said he simply took the actual cost of things so far this year, averaged it out over 12 months and plugged those numbers into his budget, adding in the expected increases for salaries and health care costs. \"That's where I came up with the figures I have now,\" Charvet said. He added that he also included 52,900 in his budget for capital items. Those items include the purchase of five tactical ballistic vests at a cost of 18,000, three computers at a cost of 5,000, four mobile computers for 16,000, a vehicle light bar for 1,500, three portable radios for 2,400, the remodeling of the dispatch counter for 4,500, four tasers for 3,500 and 2,000 for the replacement of the office carpet. Grandview City Administrator Jim Sewell noted that if the county's criminal justice tax is passed by voters today it would mean an additional 162,000 a year in revenue to be used for the police department. \"It's revenue that can be spent on new programs,\" Sewell said. Council discussed whether or not those funds could be used to cover the costs of some of the capital improvements Charvet included in his budget. There were also several places in Charvet's budget where costs are expected to go down in 2005. For example, in 2004 Charvet budgeted 10,000 for communications. In 2005, that number drops to 4,000. According to Charvet, that was a place he might have overestimated costs for this year, noting that he simply took actual costs from this year to come up with numbers for 2005. City Treasurer John Myers noted that another place dollar amounts are less is in the area of vehicles. He noted that this year there were a number of vehicles that fully depreciated. He noted that this does mean that in 2006 those numbers will likely go back up when new vehicles are purchased. Councilman Rick McLean pointed to Charvet's estimate when in it comes to overtime costs at the police department, noting that Charvet included 79,000 in the 2005 budget for overtime. He asked Charvet what the average salary of an officer is, and if it would be more cost effective to hire another officer instead of paying the overtime costs. Charvet said despite the addition of another officer the department would likely still have high overtime costs because of the time necessary to take care of things like writing out reports and doing all of the paperwork that needs to be completed. Charvet then talked about the animal control budget for 2005, which stands at 47,400. Charvet said the budget is about the same as it was in 2004. He explained that the city's animal control officer spends about 50 percent of his time taking care of his animal control duties and the rest of his time working for the police department. This means only half of his salary comes out of the animal control budget. When it comes to the fire department's budget, Grandview Fire Chief Charles Damron did some shuffling of dollars to make the most of the EMS funds the city receives on an annual basis. The shuffling of figures is what led Damron to actually lowering the fire suppression budget for 2004 from 112,240 this year to 103,520 in 2005. On the other hand, the city's budget for emergency medical services went up from 76,700 in 2004 to 105,520 in 2005. Damron and Myers explained the EMS funds he will be using are currently sitting in reserve and can only be used for emergency medical services. Damron added that he made the changes in the budget, shifting more funds to the EMS side of the budget because of the ratio of calls the department has been receiving. He noted that an estimated 75 percent of the calls the department responds to are medical calls, with the remaining 25 percent of calls being fire related. \"It makes sense to move the money to EMS from fire suppression,\" Damron explained to Council. One cost council was concerned about was in the cost of insuring the fire department vehicles. City Clerk Anita Posse noted that in 2005, the large jump in insurance costs is due to the addition of the new pumper truck. She noted that is costs an additional 2,800 a year to insure the vehicle. She also explained that the city's deductibles are already sitting at 5,000 per vehicle, up from 1,000 just several years ago. Another area Council members asked Damron about was in the category of uniforms and clothing, noting that under EMS the city budget no funds this year and 5,000 for 2005. Damron explained that this was one of the categories where he took the expenses out of the fire suppression category and placed them into the EMS budget. He pointed out that he did the same thing when it came to small tools and equipment, adding another 5,000 to the EMS budget for 2005. Sewell noted that the shift of funds reflects the city's shift from a fire department to an emergency response department. The library is another area where the budget for 2005 is seeing an increase over the budget for 2004. In 2005, the estimated budget is sitting at 203,430, compared to 185,490 in 2004. What is accounting for that increase is the additional costs the library has budgeted for capital improvements. Ken Little and Jack Mariotti, representing the library, noted that the increased capital expenditures come from a recommendation from Council to begin setting money aside to take care of the big ticket improvements that need to be made at the facility. Included in the budget is 5,000 to be set aside for the next five years for new carpeting, 5,000 to be set aside for the next five years for the replacement of the heating and air conditioning system, and 750 to be set aside for the replacement of computers. The remaining 17,010 in capital improvements is earmarked for the acquisition of books and other media. Little explained that the 750 for the replacement of computers is something the city has to do in accordance with funds it receives through a Gates grant for the original purchase of the computer equipment. He noted that the grant required the city to replace the computers in five years. Mariotti mentioned that the library board is already scared to death that the building's heating and air conditioning system could go at any moment. But Little noted that the library has to start somewhere as far as putting money away to make the repairs. It was while looking at the expensive capital repairs that need to be made at the library that Mayor Mike Bren asked what Council members would think about taking the voter approved one and a half percent utility tax back to the voters. He said the Council could ask voters to extend the utility tax one more year, using those funds to make all of the necessary capital improvements, including new carpet in the library and ballistic vests for the police department. Councilwoman Pam Horner noted that improvements paid for with the extension of the utility tax would be improvements that would last for years. \"We're taking big hits and I have to look at cutting programs and cutting people,\" Bren said. \"But we have these capital expenses.\" Then the Council turned its attention of the parks and recreation department budget, which is currently sitting at 490,830 for 2005, not including the cost of the senior center or the museum. Sewell noted that the parks and recreation budget is up 10,000 over last year. Parks and Recreation Director Mike Carpenter noted that he also has several capital improvements that needed to be looked at, but that he didn't include them in his budget because of the situation he knew the city would be in. He noted that those improvements include resurfacing the rest of the Dykstra Park pathway at an estimated cost of 18,000, 17,000 for the resurfacing of the tennis courts and 5,000 for the completion of the comprehensive six-year parks and recreation plan, which is required for many grant applications. Grandview City Council will meet to work on the budget again Monday, Nov. 8, at 7 p.m. in the city council chambers. After looking at budgets prepared by the different department heads, the city will begin looking at ways to balance the 2005 budget"}
{"Id":"1101242473711","Title":"Fake checks costly to G'view businesses","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"11/2/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"GRANDVIEW - To date, the counterfeit check scandal believed to be operating in the Lower Valley has bilked more than 25,000 from unsuspecting business owners. The Grandview Police Department has received multiple reports that checks have been cashed at local businesses and later found to be counterfeit. According to Grandview detectives, what appear to be legitimate payroll checks have been cashed. The majority of them were cashed late last week. \"We have identified over 50 bad checks so far,\" said the police. \"We have identified 40-plus names that are used on these checks.\" It is unknown how many suspects are involved since different identifications may have been used by the same suspect more than once. Identifications being used by the suspects is also counterfeit. Currently, there aren't any suspects in custody. The business being used on the counterfeit checks is Evans Fruit Company Inc. with an address in Cowiche. A company representative said that payroll checks from the business beginning with number 295 should be considered suspicious. According to Grandview police, there are some good payroll checks from the company, but any checks that begin with the numbers 295 should be confirmed with the company before being cashed. The Grandview police suggest that all identification be carefully examined before a check is cashed. Detectives also suggest that a thumbprint be placed on cashed checks, which can be helpful to investigators"}
{"Id":"1101242473945","Title":"Alderwood police sergeant dies on elk hunting trip","Author":"Mel Sacher","Time":"11/1/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"For the next few days the flags at city buildings will be at half mast in memory of Alderwood Police Sgt. Steve Evans. Evans, 50, died this past Saturday while hunting elk above Ellensburg. The request to lowered the flags came from Alderwood Mayor Rex Luthor. They will remain lowered until Evans' funeral. Alderwood Police Chief Ted Mana heard the news of Evans' death about 10:30 p.m. that night. Mana said the cause of death is believed to be a heart attack. Evans recently celebrated his 27th year with the police department, where he had served as a sergeant for about four years. He also recently passed the police department's physical agility test, which tested seasoned officers on their physical fitness. According to Mana, Evans was hunting with some other people and was left by a hunting partner, with plans to meet up at camp later. When he didn't return they went looking for him in the area where he was last seen. \"He was found sitting on the ground where he had been left. He was just waiting for an elk to come by,\" said Mana. At this time Mana said the department is assisting the family in whatever way possible. \"He'll be very much missed within the department,\" said Mana. Evans' death will also leave a hole in the community. Active in the town, Evans was always willing to lend a helping hand to those who needed it. It was his kindheartedness that earned him a letter of commendation from Mana. A member of the New Zealand Parliament had written a letter to Evans, pointing out his kindness when he went out of his way to put a young New Zealander whose passport had expired and was sitting in the Alderwood jail in contact with the New Zealand consulate. The young foreigner was able to talk to his family because of what Evans had done, said Mana. He was also a member of the Alderwood Volunteer Fire Department and, in the past, helped teach hunter safety courses. The date of Evans' funeral service has not yet been determined"}
{"Id":"1101242474461","Title":"Lady 'Hounds rush past Wildcat","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"10/29/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"GRANDVIEW - The Grandview Lady 'Hounds finished the regular season with a quick victory over the Toppenish Wildcats Thursday night. The Lady 'Hounds won over Toppenish in three with scores of 25-5, 25-4, 25-6. Grandview finished CWAC play undefeated. The Lady 'Hounds won all 12 of their league matches by 3-0 scores. Grandview Coach John LaFever said last night marked the first time all season he has played every girl on the team during a match. \"They played pretty well,\" LaFever said of his team's performance. \"They are stepping up and getting ready for Districts.\" LaFever said his team is trying to step up the intensity as they get ready for Districts next week. \"We wanted to get the intensity of our group up for Districts,\" he said. \"That's where our focus is.\" LaFever said underclassmen Christine Penwell, Logan Desserault and Danika Martinez played well for the team yesterday. \"They did a good job,\" LaFever said. Penwell finished the night with 2 kills and 1 block, Desserault had 1 kill, 1 ace and 5 service points, and Martinez had 2 service points. Also doing well for the Lady 'Hounds was sophomore setter Chante Bottineau. LaFever said she has been playing really well all season. Bottineau had 3 kills, 12 service points and 19 assists against the Wildcats. Also helping the Grandview team push past Toppenish was Danelle Cowan, who had 7 kills, 2 aces, 8 digs and 2 blocks for the night, as well as Valetina Solis with 9 kills, 1 ace and 2 blocks, Kealey Johnston with 3 kills, 6 service points and 10 digs, Angie Cabrera with 1 kill and 4 digs, Mari Cornejo with 4 kills, 5 aces and 10 service points, Beth Clapp with 4 service points and 2 digs, and Tonhya Wysong with 14 digs. The Lady 'Hounds (12-0) will play their first postseason match in Grandview Thursday, Nov. 4, at 6 p.m. against Cascade. LaFever said his team will be playing for a berth to State, explaining that four of the eight teams in Districts will move on to the State tournament"}
{"Id":"1101242474695","Title":"Lady 'Hounds rush past Wildcats","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"10/29/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"GRANDVIEW - The Grandview Lady 'Hounds finished the regular season with a quick victory over the Toppenish Wildcats Thursday night. The Lady 'Hounds won over Toppenish in three with scores of 25-5, 25-4, 25-6. Grandview finished CWAC play undefeated. The Lady 'Hounds won all 12 of their league matches by 3-0 scores. Grandview Coach John LaFever said last night marked the first time all season he has played every girl on the team during a match. \"They played pretty well,\" LaFever said of his team's performance. \"They are stepping up and getting ready for Districts.\" LaFever said his team is trying to step up the intensity as they get ready for Districts next week. \"We wanted to get the intensity of our group up for Districts,\" he said. \"That's where our focus is.\" LaFever said underclassmen Christine Penwell, Logan Desserault and Danika Martinez played well for the team yesterday. \"They did a good job,\" LaFever said. Penwell finished the night with 2 kills and 1 block, Desserault had 1 kill, 1 ace and 5 service points, and Martinez had 2 service points. Also doing well for the Lady 'Hounds was sophomore setter Chante Bottineau. LaFever said she has been playing really well all season. Bottineau had 3 kills, 12 service points and 19 assists against the Wildcats. Also helping the Grandview team push past Toppenish was Danelle Cowan, who had 7 kills, 2 aces, 8 digs and 2 blocks for the night, as well as Valetina Solis with 9 kills, 1 ace and 2 blocks, Kealey Johnston with 3 kills, 6 service points and 10 digs, Angie Cabrera with 1 kill and 4 digs, Mari Cornejo with 4 kills, 5 aces and 10 service points, Beth Clapp with 4 service points and 2 digs, and Tonhya Wysong with 14 digs. The Lady 'Hounds (12-0) will play their first postseason match in Grandview Thursday, Nov. 4, at 6 p.m. against Cascade. LaFever said his team will be playing for a berth to State, explaining that four of the eight teams in Districts will move on to the State tournament"}
{"Id":"1101242475414","Title":"Planning Commission votes for mini ranchette zoning for new annexation","Author":"Jamie Smart","Time":"10/28/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"It's a case of majority rules in the Alderwood neighborhood bordering Saul Road and South Hill Road. After nearly three years of discussion and delays, Wednesday night the Alderwood Planning Commission accepted an annexation petition from the 23 petitioners in the area seeking to annex into the city limits under the mini ranchette zone designation. It was apparent that of the 30 property owners in the area, all of the residents were interested in annexing into the city limits, but the bone of contention surrounded the zoning issue. The mini-ranchette proponents, who chose Marvin Meyer of Saul Road as their spokesperson, encouraged the Planning Commission to zone the entire area with the rural urban designation in order to allow them to continue to live in the lifestyle they have previously enjoyed. \"We moved here to live a country lifestyle,\" he said. \"We don't want to live in high density environment,\" he explained. The Planning Commission's recommendation came after nearly 90-minutes of public testimony taken during two separate public hearings regarding the same area. While the bulk of the property owners preferred to retain the rural style enjoyed while being residents of the county, three landowners championed R-2 or R-1 designation, which would allow them to subdivide their South Hill Road properties. Saying the mini-ranchette designation, which calls for single family dwelling on lots of at least one acre, won't allow them to divide their South Hill Road land, Mr. and Mrs. Butler asked that they be allowed to have their property and that of the two other nearby properties be allowed to remain R-1, or at the very least, changed to R-2. The R-1 zone allows for a mix of up to nine single family dwellings on an acre lot, while R-2 allows for single family or duplex dwellings in lots up to 4,200 square feet. However, if the Planning Commission were to patchwork in the Butlers' request, the Planning Commission could face objections from the Alderwood County Boundary Review Board, cautioned Bruce Rinz, Alderwood city attorney. Rinz said the R-1 and R-2 zoning designations call for high density housing, which may not be compatible with the current housing in the south Alderwood neighborhood. \"It might be better for the Planning Commission to designate the entire area as mini-ranchette and then allow those property owners to petition the commission for conditional use permits,\" Rinz suggested. \"We want to avoid a patchwork zoning pattern,\" said Planning Commissioner Brent Cleghorn. He said it was his understanding that the majority of the property owners were in favor of the mini ranchette zone before the issue was tabled nearly three years ago. \"That still seems to be the zone they want to have us give the area,\" Cleghorn said. The Butlers protested, saying the area's residents had not been promised a mini ranchette zone. \"Isn't it possible for us to be zoned as R-1,\" asked Mrs. Butler. We don't have a problem with the folks on the south side of South Hill Road and on the east side of Saul Road being zoned mini ranchette,\" she said. \"But we feel R-2 would be better on our side of the street,\" she explained. The Planning Commission denied the Bulters' zoning request, voting in favor of designating the entire South Hill-Saul Road area as mini ranchette. The commission's recommendation will now be forwarded to the Alderwood County Boundary Review Board for its review, which is expected to take up to 45 days before being fowarded to the Alderwood City Council for its consideration"}
{"Id":"1101242496242","Title":"Workers at Grandview Foods unionize","Author":"Mel Sacher","Time":"10/27/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"GRANDVIEW - The employees of Grandview Foods, LLC and Barrett Business Services have voted to unionize. The plant, which is located near the corner of Grandridge and Second streets in Grandview, has exchanged new ownership several times over the past four years, according to Teamsters Local 760 secretary/treasurer John Parks. He said in the past the employees working at the plant have been unionized, but this is the first time they have been organized since the most recent ownership switch. Parks said the majority of the people working at the plant have worked there under a union contract before. Parks said the workers still voted 97 to 4 last Thursday in favor of unionizing, despite attempts by the owners to stall a vote. The unionization campaign began early last summer, according to Parks. He said a group of employees contacted the union, asking to be organized. Some of the concerns, according to Parks, are wages, working hours, working conditions and seniority. Under the way the company is operated, Barrett Business Services employs the production workers, and janitorial and management are employees of Grandview Foods. He said that during processing nearly 300 people work at the plant. He said 273 people are on the excelsior list, which was created after four days of hearings by the National Labor Relations Board. The excelsior list is the number of employees on the payroll when a decision is made by the National Labor Relations Board. He said that the people on the excelsior list were allowed to vote in the election. Parks said 170 ballots were cast in the election, but the company challenged 69 of the votes because the employees had been laid off two days prior to the election. Parks said the 69 votes were not enough to change the vote, which was 94 in favor of unionizing and 4 against it. \"Even if all 69 votes were for the employer, it wasn't enough to change anything,\" he said. Currently, the union is waiting for the end of a five-day appeals period. Once the unionization has been certified, Parks said the Teamsters will begin looking at how business is done at Grandview Foods, so that the negotiation process can begin. \"The workers at Grandview Foods have spoken loudly and clearly,\" said Parks. \"We are now going to negotiate a contract that will honor their trust in the union"}
{"Id":"1101242496477","Title":"Mabton Council OK's annexation","Author":"Jamie Smart","Time":"10/27/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"MABTON - Mabton City boundaries will soon be a little larger and its treasury will be a little fuller following action taken by the Mabton City Council Tuesday night. The Council voted to accept two annexation requests during Tuesday night's public hearing. Last night's vote clears the way for Mabton officials to forward annexation petitions from Northwest Horticulture and the owners of the old Mabton High School property to the Alderwood County Boundary Review Board for final review, said Mabton City Administrator Ildia Jackson. Jackson said Tuesday's night's vote ends nearly three years of waiting to annex the industrial nursery into the city boundaries and to the city's property tax base. If approval comes back during the next 45 days from the county boundary review board, the annexation process could be completed in December, allowing more than 60 acres to become a part of the city's tax rolls in 2005. The council's approval given during the continuation of a public hearing opened on Oct. 6, attracted no public participation last night, but that didn't keep the Council from celebrating. \"We've waited a long time for this,\" Councilwoman Velva Herrera said. \"I'm very excited about the annexation process moving forward,\" she said. The annexation includes the old high school property at the east end of B Street, the Northwest Horticulture greenhouse property on Allison Road and the plat of land known as the Clark Addition, located along side State Route 22. The combined annexation proposals will more than double the city's property tax revenues once completed, said Jackson. The annexation in the Allison Road area includes the Northwest Horticulture greenhouse and about 20 houses, which are currently on city water lines. While Jackson said the residents in the proposed annexation can expect to see lower water rates once the area becomes part of the city limits, the city will see an estimated 100,000 flow into the city treasury. Jackson said a public hearing will be scheduled in the near future to approve a zone change in the Allison Road area. \"We will be looking at changing the zoning to meet with our urban growth plan,\" Jackson explained. She said the city plans to allow residents in the newly annexed area to continue to raise animals on their property under a rural residential zone designation. \"There are a number of people in the are who raise a few cows or goats and in a rural residential zone, they will be able to maintain that lifestyle,\" she explained. A date for the zoning change public hearing was not set during Tuesday's meeting"}
{"Id":"1101242496711","Title":"Lady 'Hounds beat Othello in three","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"10/27/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"GRANDVIEW - The Grandview Lady Greyhounds kept their winning streak alive Tuesday night, defeating Othello in a three-game match. The Grandview team has yet to lose a game in league play. The Grandview team beat Othello by scores of 25-7, 25-18, 25-11. \"We played well enough to win,\" Grandview Coach John LaFever said of his team's performance Tuesday night. \"We've probably played better.\" Despite not playing up to their fullest potential, the Grandview team was able to easily put away the Huskies. Playing well for the 'Hounds was sophomore setter Chante Bottineau, who finished the night with 17 assists, 2 aces, 13 sgeer said senior Valentina Solis also did a good job for Grandview. \"She did a very good job at the net,\" LaFever said of Solis, who finished the match with 7 kills and 2 aces. Also with 7 kills for the Lady 'Hounds was senior Danelle Cowan. Angie Cabrera had 9 digs against Othello, Tonhya Wysong had 24 digs, Kealey Johnston had 7 digs, 2 kills and 9 service points, Mari Cornejo had 3 kills and 2 service aces, and Christine Penwell had 1 kill. LaFever said sophomore Jessica Gonzalez and senior Beth Clapp also played well for the 'Hounds. Despite having one more regular season match coming up this week, LaFever said his team is already looking ahead to District play. \"We're looking forward to playing tough matches at Districts,\" LaFever said. He noted that the team is already working on its game, getting ready for the postseason. Grandview will take to the court again Thursday night at home against Toppenish. The match will serve as senior night for Grandview. The Lady 'Hounds will play their first District match in Grandview Thursday, Nov. 4, against Cascade"}
{"Id":"1101242496946","Title":"Obituaries","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"10/27/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"MARTHA ELAINE BRYSON-GILMOUR MARTHA ELAINE BRYSON-GILMOUR Martha Elaine Bryson-Gilmour, 68, of Richland died Monday, Oct. 25, 2004, in Richland. She was born in a rural farming community of Stanton, Iowa to Elsie and Vernon Bryson. She grew up with three brothers and two sisters in Stanton until they relocated to Prosser and then to Grandview in 1948. She graduated from Grandview High School in 1953. She was employed at Old National Bank in Grandview from 1954 to 1955. She then moved to Richland and worked for Seattle First National Bank until 1976. In 1959 she met George G. Gilmour. They were married in 1960 and made their home in Richland. She worked for Nucleonics Alliance, which later became OCAW Local I-369 from 1976 to 1994. She later attended Columbia Basin Community College, where she received her Associate s Degree in applied science and a certificate in chemical dependency counseling. After completing school she worked for Choices and Changes and was involved with Al-Anon, Al-Ateen and the Contact Help Line. She is survived by her husband of 44 years, George Gilmour of Richland; four sons, George F. Gilmour and wife, Lori, of Pasco, David M. Gilmour and wife, Erin, of Renton, G. Allen Gilmour of Spokane and Joseph Robert Gilmour of Seattle; eight grandchildren; two great-grandchildren; one sister, Karen Fritts of Alderwood; and one brother, George Bryson of Prosser. She was preceded in death by her parents; three brothers; and two sisters. Memorial services will be held Saturday, Oct. 30, 2004, at 10 a.m. at Bethel Church, 600 Shockley Rd, Richland. Graveside services will be held Saturday, Oct. 30, 2004, at 2 p.m. at Grandview Cemetery, Grandview, under the direction of Jones Funeral Home. In lieu of flowers, those wishing to honor Mrs. Gilmour s memory may contribute to the Tri-City Cancer Center, 7350 Deschutes Ave. Building A. Kennewick, WA. 99336. Jones Funeral Home, Grandview, is in charge of arrangements"}
{"Id":"1101242497211","Title":"Alderwood City Council says no to Catholic Diocese housing presentation","Author":"Bob Story","Time":"10/26/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Told that last night's Alderwood City Council meeting was not the correct public forum to present a slide show on a housing development planned for this community, several members of the Catholic Diocese quietly packed up their projector and went home. Last night's Council agenda called for the Catholic Family Services group to make an informational presentation on a multi-unit, low income housing complex the Diocese wants to build near Sheller Road and 16th Street. But before Diocese spokesman Mario Villanueva, or his projector, even got warmed up, he was interrupted by Mayor Rex Luthor, who asked Assistant City Manager/City Attorney Bruce Rinz if such a presentation could be heard outside public hearing proceedings. Rinz, hemming and hawing a bit, responded that the information should be presented in general terms on what the Diocese offers in the way of housing. Villanueva began anew, but Councilman Tom Seeger quickly interjected, saying that in Villanueva's opening statement the intent was clear that he hoped to persuade the Council to reconsider a zoning decision made by a Alderwood planning group recently. The Catholic Diocese is seeking to have two pieces of property at the Sheller Road/16th Street site rezoned as R-2, to accomodate the construction of a multi-unit housing complex. The recommendation from the planning group, though, was to only designate one of the two properties as R-2. Luthor took Seeger's lead and proceeded to ask the rest of the Council members their thoughts on whether or not the Catholic Diocese presentation should be allowed. Councilman Jim Sarducci said he and Mayor Pro-Tem George Greenway had potential conflicts of interest with the housing project and shouldn't offer an opinion either way. Council member Jennie Angel said she was in favor of hearing the presentation. \"I want as much information on this project as possible,\" she said. Raul Martinez, recently appointed to the Council, said he too would like to hear the informational presentation, but cited an uncertainty on the legality of the matter and said he would abide by the Mayor's decision. At that point, Villanueva said he was withdrawing his original statement and the intent implied, and merely wanted to provide a general, overall view on the types of housing the Catholic Diocese provides for residents of the Alderwood Valley. The issue was thrown back in Rinz's court, but unlike his earlier statement that a presentation in general terms would be acceptable, the city attorney suggested rescheduling the presentation at either a planning commission meeting or another public forum. Luthor made the final decision that a presentation by the Catholic Diocese at last night's Council meeting would be inappropriate, saying that in such quasi-judicial matters the Council members act as judges. He pointed out that in the appearance of fairness, all such discussions should be conducted at public hearings, where parties from both sides of a land use issue can be present and have the opportunity to speak"}
{"Id":"1101242497446","Title":"Consent items receive approval","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"10/26/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Monday night, the Alderwood City Council unanimously approved four consent agenda items, which don't warrant discussion before the voting takes place. The consent items that were passed through included approving the minutes of the Sept. 27 and Oct. 6 meetings, approving a list of vouchers for payment in the amount of 391,502 and approving a request by the American Legion and VFW to close Ninth Street, from Edison Avenue to Franklin Avenue, from 10:30 a.m. to noon on Nov. 11 for a Veterans Day observance. One consent item that was on the agenda-a request by the chamber of commerce for assistance with the annual lighted farm implement parade on Dec. 4-was pulled at the request of Councilman Tom Seeger. He questioned the 600 that will be spent in overtime pay for the police department to provide security at the event. \"Do we set a precedent when we charge for one parade and not another,\" Seeger asked his peers. Assistant City Manager/City Attorney Bruce Rinz said it is his understanding that the policy has been that the city does not charge organizers of similar events for police security. Alderwood Police Captain Bill Bank added that his department has typically absorbed the costs. The Council, without much fanfare, went on to unanimously approve the chamber's request for assistance. Beautification winners named The Alderwood City Council Monday evening congratulated the latest winners of the community beautification awards. The awards are presented on a monthly basis to homeowners and merchants recognized for maintaining an attractive exterior at their respective home or business. The latest award winners include Juan and Martha Chavez for their home on Dennis Avenue, Bob and May Moore for their home on Olive Avenue, and the Best Western Grape Vine Inn. Annexation proceedings OK'd The Alderwood City Council unanimously approved annexation initiation proceedings by a large group of residents living in the area of Saul, South Hill and Thornton roads. The original annexation request came from four lot owners, but has since grown to include the owners of 27 lots or homes. \"This is one of the largest (annexation) petitions we've ever received,\" said Mayor Rex Luthor. The area in question is being proposed as a \"mini ranchette\" zone. Councilman seeks Black Rock signage on I-82 Councilman John Torch Monday evening formally asked city staff to look into what needs to be done to get Black Rock signage added to the exit 69 sign along I-82. The signage, he said, would point out the exit that leads to both the proposed Black Rock Reservoir and Black Rock Creek Golf Course"}
{"Id":"1101242498164","Title":"Forum","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"10/22/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"1-Column Privatizing water works not wise Wake up, Alderwood! You're about to lose some more of your rights. The City of Alderwood is considering privatizing water and wastewater operations. Although there are different forms of privatization, usually it means the city and its tax paying citizens lose control of daily operations. How will this affect you? High water and sewer rates for one thing. Slower response time to water service requests and possibly even emergency situations, as well as water quality complaints, too. As it stands now, you do have a voice in how these systems operate or how much your monthly bill will be. A lot of these companies that come in to run municipal systems are foreign owned, many from France. Typically, these companies do little or no maintenance to the water system and its components, i.e. changing meters, well maintenance, flushing, pump motor maintenance. Instead, these companies will reap all the profits and when the contract is up, return to the city an antiquated, broken down water system. It takes a person at least five years to learn Alderwood's water system well enough to operate it. Alderwood's public works employees have the experience and know how to keep the systems in tip top shape. Currently, there is over 100 years of combined experience within these two departments. Speaking of the city water and sewer department employees, what will become of them? And their benefits? And the benefits to the merchants of the city? Lose jobs, lose revenues. You have the power to stop this outrage. Attend the city council meetings and let your voices be heard! After all, the city council members are your employees. For more information on the dangers of privatization, go to your favorite search engine and type in \"privatization.\" /s/ Clint Carter, Ilwaco, former Alderwood Public Works employee Theater offers evening of fun It has been a pleasure to work on the current play, \"Mame,\" presented by the Lower Valley Senior Theatre Company. The play will be presented Saturday, Oct. 23, at 7:30 p.m. with a final performance on Sunday, Oct. 24, at 2 p.m. I hope many of you will join us and support the cast. They are from Alderwood, Grandview, Toppenish, Yakima and Prosser. The cost is 8 and it is being presented in the Alderwood High School auditorium. Please join us for an evening of fun. You may even see a familiar face. /s/ Lynn Hewitt, Prosser Port story not worthy of front page This letter is prompted by the the Oct. 13 front page story titled \"Port sues builder for breach of contract.\" I have found it interesting over the years what the Port of Alderwood does is worthy of front page news coverage. Whenever they hire, promote or fire someone it calls for a press release. Yes, the Port is a public entity and justifies coverage, but so are the schools, the city, DAHS and the post office. Is one reason the Port justifies coverage being because we are a small town and news is scarce? Or because people know each other and like to hear about their promotions? For these same reasons I question the judgment or the coverage of the Oct. 13 article (and subsequent correction naming Tim Bardell again). I will say up front Tim Bardell and his family are friends of mine. This is not the first article covering the conflict between Engineer Bardell and the Port of Alderwood. It seems the point of each article is a mission to destroy Tim's credibility as an engineer. Especially in a small town this could be devastating to Tim's business, livelihood and family. I do not know the whole story behind the conflict, but know Tim is a man of integrity. I know when he was working on the Horizon project he worked hard to meet the requests and demands of him. And when the conflict followed he did his best to work things out with the Port to avoid what has happened that is being publicly labeled as well as being sued. Anyone in business knows things don't always work out as planned. Suppliers miss deadlines, projects run into problems and people disappoint. But these things do not need front page coverage. Tim contributes in many ways to our community for its betterment. He volunteers on school communities, gives of himself in the Boy Scouts program and supports Alderwood in various ways. It is unfortunate his work could not please the Port, but it is a shame to mistreat him in the \"public square.\" /s/ Deon Herndon, Alderwood Win-win situation The City of Alderwood has done its job to make our fine city an even better place to live by purchasing the Monson feedlot. What can we, the citizens of Alderwood, do to make this city one in which we can take pride? 1) We must adjust our attitudes regarding Alderwood and the progress it is making. 2) We can make positive statements to all out-of-town guests and all our contacts. 3) We need to actively support and participate in our community to make Alderwood a good and prosperous place in which to live. It is by setting a good example and really working together that we can make this a win-win situation in Alderwood for us all. /s/ Leroy Ganser, Alderwood Sunshine Days a disappointment I read in the local paper that the reasoning for cutting back the amount of time allotted for Sunshine Days was because of the lack of community involvement. But as long as I can remember I have gone downtown with my family to enjoy the food, the people and to support the community during Sunshine Days. We did not go down to Sunshine Days just once, but we were down there for at least an hour of each of the three days that it was put on, and each of those days the streets were packed with people from the community. I was raised in this community, being taught by its adults to support this town and its people. It is very disappointing when the very people who teach this cannot practice what they preach. I could not quite grasp the idea that Sunshine Days was only going to be one day this year, but then I thought, one day is better than none. Well, I guess I had to settle for nothing, because that is precisely what it was zip, zero, zilch. I have one question. If it was up to the community, why didn't the Chamber of Commerce ask for assistance from us, this town's people? Instead, they made a decision that satisfied them, not what satisfied the people. /s/ Sarah Littleton, Alderwood Do you really love your neighbor? So, you're a pro-choice Christian, are you? That means you're a hypocrite, too. Here's why? Let's start with Sen. John Kerry as an example. He voted for the brutal partial-birth abortion procedure, and yet he claims to be Catholic, which makes, like any Christian, responsible for loving his neighbor as himself. But is the savage killing of an innocent child considered love of neighbor? No. Hypocrite. Take Sen. Patty Murray. She claims to be Catholic too, like John Kerry. She prances around in her tennis shoes, rejoicing with her own life, while voting for the destruction of children's lives through partial-birth abortion, just because the kids are not hers. Hypocrite. Oh, and then there's Attorney General Christine Gregoire. Now, she's got the nerve to claim Catholicism, too, while being defiantly pro-choice, even though the Catholic Church opposes abortion. Another hypocrite. What about you? I suppose you're going to say that you can be a pro-choice Christian. That means you'll be happy to defend your own life, but you won't give a hoot about your neighbor's life. In other words, you'd want protection for your own child by not consenting to abortion, but when it comes to your neighbor's child, \"Oh, what the heck, go ahead and kill the baby.\" After all, it's your neighbor's child, not yours. But that doesn't explain the words you read in your Bible about love your neighbor as yourself. Do you care or not? Do you really love your neighbor as yourself? Or could you care less? A true Christian cares. So, if you're going to claim Christianity, and you don't want to be a hypocrite, then you can't be pro-choice or support pro-choice politicians. /s/ Theresa Ann DeGoede, Mossyrock Make a difference On Oct. 8, I began weeding, cleaning up and preparing the Fifth Street guardrail for some additional color (plant wise) for next spring. I had some help from Vianca Herrera, Cas Cedillo, Robert Ozuna, Steven Peralez, Luis Hernandez and a future landscaper, Frank Ibarra. Then Frank, Beverly Duncan and I planted tulips and crocus for an early surprise for everyone in the spring. Bill and Anne Flower generously donated iris, daisies, lavender, basket of gold and day lilies, along with black-eyed Susans, potentilla, gallardia, mums and yucca from my yard we were ready to add more color. I want to especially thank the helping hands that were my angels for the planting on Oct. 16. The angels were Jennie Angel, Valentin Arriaga and Alice Chopper. Without your help I would have been all weekend getting it done. I can't thank you enough for your help. I would hope that the citizens of Alderwood would be inspired to join the helping hands in improving our wonderful city. It would mean a prettier, cleaner, friendlier city if everyone tried just a little. Won't you all think about it this winter and then walk around next spring and see if you can make a difference in a positive way, as well. /s/ Carol Stone, Alderwood"}
{"Id":"1101242517805","Title":"Aquatic center proposal may be decided by voters next May","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"10/22/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"GRANDVIEW - If the Grandview Parks and Recreation Service Area Board has its way, voters will take to the polls May 17, 2005 to decide the fate of the proposed family aquatic center set to be built at Euclid Park. Thursday night, the service area board met to get a consensus on when the election should be held, as well as go over the group's action plan for the proposal. Grandview Parks and Recreation Director Mike Carpenter said he felt that the spring election date would be beneficial to the proposal. \"It's in spring when people are starting to think about water activities,\" Carpenter said. He added that if the May 17 date is officially chosen as the date of the election, they board will have an April 1 deadline to turn all of their election information over to the county. \"I completely believe that's the date we should use,\" Carpenter told the board. He said getting a consensus on the election date will put a lot of other things into motion, noting that he and Board Chair Dave Copeland will bring the date to city council during their Nov. 1 meeting. Board member Pam Horner added that if the election takes place in May and the aquatic center measure is approved the facility could be up and running by summer 2006. Last time the board brought a proposal for a family aquatics center before the voters, the election was held in November. The measure failed. During last night's meeting, the board also took time to review its action plan, which includes a list of tasks to be completed before the proposed May election. The action plan includes educating community members about the family aquatic center project, addressing any concerns from the community and recruiting members for the SPLASH campaign committee. According to the action plan, the board will set up community meetings where voters will get a chance to see different designs for the aquatics facility, as well as ask any questions they might have about the project. Carpenter said one of the concerns that was raised through the surveys that the board distributed earlier this summer dealt with the possible loss of soccer fields if the center is built at Euclid Park. Carpenter said he spoke to Grandview Schools Superintendent Kevin Chase about the issue, and was told that it could be possible to move one of the soccer fields onto school grounds. \"So we won't lose that,\" Carpenter said. He added that he has also been talking to representatives of the Youth Soccer Association about the possibility of putting in two youth-sized soccer fields at Dykstra Park. Board member John Posse noted that one important thing to keep in mind when talking to people about the project is that according to the surveys the aquatics center is a project that most people want to support. \"This is a quality of life priority,\" Posse said. He added that in every community the board visited over the summer, the aquatics facilities that had been built had proven to be positive assets"}
{"Id":"1101242518040","Title":"Lady 'Hounds getting close to another perfect season","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"10/22/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"MOXEE - The Lady Greyhounds are on their way to their third consecutive undefeated season. Thursday night, the Grandview team played tough against East Valley, walking away with a 3-0 victory. The Lady 'Hounds defeated the Red Devils by scores of 25-14, 25-17, 25-14. \"They played well when they needed to,\" Grandview Coach John LaFever said of his team's performance. He said although his team wasn't on top of their game last night, they were still able to stay ahead of East Valley, which was a team that didn't bring any surprises to the court. \"East Valley was what we would have expected,\" LaFever said. The Greyhounds played tough both offensively and defensively against the Red Devils. LaFever said junior Tonhya Wysong and freshman Kealey Johnston did a good job on defense for the team. \"Their digging has been really good and it's important,\" LaFever said. Johnston also stepped up her game, with four or five kills in a row against the Red Devils during the second game of the night. He added that senior Valentina Solis had a good night against East Valley, noting that she did a nice job for the team. Johnson finished the night with 6 kills, 27 digs, 7 service points and 2 blocks; Wysong had 32 digs; Solis had 13 kills, 5 digs and 2 aces; Danelle Cowan had 8 kills, 8 digs, 5 service points and 3 blocks; Angie Cabrera had 3 kills and 8 digs; Mari Cornejo had 8 kills and 7 digs; Chante Bottineau had 29 assists and 12 service points; and Jessica Gonzalez had 3 service points and 1 dig. LaFever said at this point his team is in a good position going into the postseason, adding that they will likely host the first round of Districts at Grandview. However, before the team can look forward to Districts they have two matches left to play in the regular season. Next Tuesday night the Lady 'Hounds will play Othello at home"}
{"Id":"1101242518555","Title":"Proposition #1 will provide much needed funding for Alderwood County law enforcement","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"10/20/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Three-tenth's of a penny may not sound like much, but Alderwood County Sheriff Ken Irwin believes it will be enough to help give the county's criminal justice system a much needed shot in the arm. Wednesday morning, Irwin talked to members of the Alderwood Daybreak Rotary Club about Proposition #1, a measure that will be on the ballot this November. Proposition #1 asks voters to approve a three-tenths of a penny sales tax increase that will raise money to help fund the Alderwood County Sheriff's Office, local police departments within the county and the criminal justice system in general. According to Irwin, the sales tax increase is expected to raise 6.1 million to be divided between the county and the local police jurisdictions. The county is estimated to receive 3.6 million, with the remainder of the funds going to local police departments, like Alderwood's, which could see a benefit of 252,000 a year if the proposition passes. Irwin told Rotarians that he understands that people don't like to pay more in taxes, but he added that this tax is deeply needed. He explained that in 1998, before the passage of several voter approved initiatives that affected funding, the Alderwood County Sheriff's Office had 73 budgeted positions. Irwin said at the end of this year, the Sheriff's Office will be down to having 63 deputies. \"And that's just too thin out there,\" Irwin said of the number of deputies out on the road. He noted that the Sheriff's Office provides services for 90,000 people living in unincorporated Alderwood County with those 63 deputies. Irwin said most of the funds raised through Proposition #1 will go to putting more deputies and police officers out on the road. He added that although most of the funds will go toward supporting local law enforcement agencies, the criminal justice funding issues are something that affect the entire system. \"It's a system wide issue,\" Irwin said. He told Rotarians that Alderwood County Prosecutor Ron Zirkle has 90 to 100 cases sitting in his office, ready to go. \"We've ID'd who the criminal is, but he simply doesn't have the capacity to take those cases to court,\" Irwin said. He said that the county wants to be able to hold those criminals accountable for their actions. And adults offenders aren't the only people who are not getting properly processed. Irwin said because of a shortage of open beds in the juvenile system, many young offenders aren't being held. He said instead, they are often times being released into their parents' custody. \"It's not right, we need more beds,\" Irwin said. He added that if Proposition #1 is approved it would help cover the cost of creating more room in the juvenile system to handle the load. \"We have a system here that because of reductions...we're not able to provide the service we should be here in Alderwood County,\" Irwin said. \"I don't think that's the type of county we want to live in.\" Irwin also asked those in attendance at this morning's meeting not to vote against the measure simply to punish the Alderwood County commissioners. \"You can't wish this problem away,\" Irwin said. He explained that Proposition #1 makes it so the commissioners cannot use funds from the levy to replace any existing funding to the Sheriff's Office. He noted that the measure also includes a six-year sunset clause. He said if the measure is passed in November, it is something that will be brought back to the voters in six year's time. Irwin said he also plans on providing an annual report to citizens of the county, which will note how the funds are being spent"}
{"Id":"1101242518821","Title":"Casino/restaurant opening planned","Author":"Bob Story","Time":"10/20/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Rob and Sue Rice of Alderwood, as well as a handful of investors, are gambling that opening a casino in the Lower Alderwood Valley will be a sure bet with local residents. The site of the new casino will be the former Alderwood Elks lodge, located right next door to Black Rock Creek Golf Course. The lodge was sold several years back and reopened as the Fairway Restaurant. The restaurant was closed earlier this year. The monstrous building is now in the hands of the Rice's, who are the general partners and majority owners of RS Kids LLC, made up of a small group of investors intent on offering adult entertainment in the Lower Valley. The Alderwood couple is quick to point out that its new venture, to be called RC's, is much more than just a casino. A restaurant offering formal dining, as well as a sports bar and banquet rooms, will hopefully draw a wide array of people into the new establishment, they say. The restaurant and sports bar are tentatively scheduled to be opened on Nov. 16. The Rice's are planning for a Dec. 1 opening of their casino. The site being developed for the new business, along Alderwood Valley Highway between Alderwood and Grandview, lies in an unincorporated area of the county. As such, all gaming taxes generated at RC's will go into Alderwood County coffers. There is a potential for the county to net a quarter of a million dollars annually from the gambling taxes. A more realistic figure, says Mr. Rice, (perhaps conservative depending on who you talk to), is that 180,000 will be generated in gaming taxes each year. Rice bases his estimate on how similar sized mini-casinos have fared in other communities in Washington state. Alderwood County commissioners earlier this year, at the request of the Rice's, lowered the gaming tax rate from 20 percent to 10 percent-the same rate the City of Yakima assesses card room and mini-casino owners doing business in that municipality. RC's will be the first casino from which the county will draw taxes. Ironically, the approximate 200,000 expected to be netted in gaming taxes each year at RC's could have gone into the City of Alderwood's bank account. In June 2002, the Rice's sought permission from the city to expand their bowling center, to include a mini-casino. Their business, Valley Lanes, is located in the heart of the city, directly across from the high school on Edison Avenue. But when the couple began making inquiries at city hall in late May 2002, the Alderwood City Council quickly enacted an emergency moratorium on accepting license applications for house-banked card rooms. Later that year, in November, despite the Alderwood Planning Commisson's recommendation to allow mini-casinos in the city, the Council vote unanimously to prohibit any such gambling activities within the city limits. \"Our first choice was to do business in our own town,\" said Rice, a native of Alderwood who has operated several businesses in the city, including the bowling center he now operates and several mini-marts. \"Being forced out of the city to do business, we've had to spend more money than we wanted to,\" he continued. \"The plan had been to offer an all-in-one package at the bowl, although the casino would have been separate from the bowling end of it.\" What has Alderwood lost? \"Obviously, the 180,000 in taxes each year,\" said Rice. \"Who couldn't use that kind of money? \"Our original plan was to have an all-inclusive entertainment center at the bowl. It was something we wanted in Alderwood, something that could appeal to families. \"The fear might have been that a card room would bring in trouble,\" he continued. \"But card playing doesn't bring in the trouble. It's the alcohol that can cause problems. \"But we were already serving alcohol at the bowl. We didn't have trouble with that, and we still don't. \"There's not a lot of entertainment options in Alderwood. We wanted to add something to the community,\" said Rice, a professional bowler who still takes time to compete at several PBA events each year despite his hectic business schedule. The Rice's have not had to deal with the City of Alderwood on their current endeavor. Their new casino doesn't fall under the jurisdiction of the local municipality. The processing of the paperwork and permits has been through the Washington State Gambling Commission and with the county. Final approval from the state is expected within weeks, if not days. Although the City of Alderwood won't directly benefit from taxes generated at RC's, there will be an economical benefit via the creation of between 50 and 70 new jobs at the casino and restaurant. The Rice's are currently advertising the job openings, which include everything from managers and floor supervisors, waitresses, dealers, security and surveillance personnel to cooks, cashiers and dish washers. Rice said the salaries should range from an average of 3,000 a month for management to 9 to 13 an hour for the other staff members. The casino end of the business at RC's will offer gaming enthusiasts several options of play. Already in place are two poker tables, which will afford card players both open play and tournament style action. Seven other gaming tables will also be operated on a daily basis, featuring such games as Blackjack, Pai Gow, Spanish 21, 3-Card Poker and Texas Shootout. Rice said the casino tables will be opened to customers in the late afternoon, with a closing time at 2 a.m. With the way the Rice's have configured the upstairs hall of their new building, the dining areas will be closed off from the casino. \"We want it so families who aren't interested in the casino can still come out and have dinner in just a restaurant setting,\" Rice said. The formal dining establishment will offer a full dinner menu, \"...but there will be a flare for Italian food and steaks,\" said Rice. Chef Rick Grindrod, who specializes in Italian food and desserts and has such stops as Snipes Mountain Restaurant and the Barn Restaurant on his resume, has already been secured to oversee the operation of the kitchen. RC's will also offer its patrons two sports bars, one of which will be a no-smoking section. Rice said numerous television screens, featuring a varied sports package, will be operating around the clock for the enjoyment of all sports enthusiasts. Also being made available to Lower Valley residents are two banquet rooms. Additional banquet seating may be added in the ground level of the building at a later time if the need arises. At the outset, the Rice's plan to expand the current parking area to mirror that of their neighbor-Black Rock Creek Golf Course. Down the road, said Rice, lighting and landscaping improvements are planned. Black Rock Creek PGA head pro Jeff Bender welcomes Rice and the casino next door to the Alderwood golf course. Bender said based on what he has seen first-hand at the bowling center operated by the Rice's, he's expecting a well operated, well maintained business that will complement the entertainment the golf course provides. \"My vision is that golfers will come here for tournaments, we'll give them a couple of drink coupons and eat lunch here, and then after the awards ceremony we'll give the golfers 25 in casino chips and go have dinner next door,\" Bender said. Such an arrangement suits Rice, as well. \"We're going to be competitive in terms of specials for our customers,\" he said. \"The bottom line is we want a relaxed and enjoyable atmosphere here. We want people to come out for dinner, whether they're gamblers or not. \"It's a big investment. But it all came down to numbers, based on the area's population. We felt there is enough people here to warrant putting in something like this,\" he continued. \"But I'll be honest, it would have been difficult to do this without the relationship we have with some other casino owners we know. They have made it possible. They've been a very valuable asset to us. \"Our dream was to offer the people here a true entertainment center,\" he added. \"Unfortunately, the only thing that will be missing out here is the bowling center"}
{"Id":"1101242519055","Title":"Voters urged to test new voting system","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"10/20/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Those voters who didn't get a chance to use Alderwood County's new eSlate voting system during last month's primary election still have a chance to familiarize themselves with the machines before Nov. 2. The Alderwood County Auditor's Office has placed two demonstration machines in the Lower Alderwood Valley. The demonstration machines give voters a chance to walk up to the voting booth, and actually go through the action of casting a demonstration ballot. \"We felt if we had the machine here, people would feel comfortable coming in here and asking us questions,\" said Gabriel Martinez, station manager of Radio KDNA. The radio station at 120 Alderwood Ave. in Granger is one of two locations in the Lower Valley where demonstration machines are set up for voters to get a closer look. A voting machine is also set up at Grand Cinemas, located off of Interstate 82 at exit 69 in Alderwood. The machines will be on display at these locations through Monday, Oct. 25. Martinez said staff members at the local radio station are bilingual, which is another reason he felt it was important to have a demonstration machine set up in the building. The eSlate voting system replaces the county's old punch-card system of voting. The elimination of the punch card system was required through legislation passed by the federal government. The eSlate machine is able to serve the general public, voters with disabilities and can provide people with a bilingual ballot"}
{"Id":"1101242519290","Title":"Beyond The Norm Mel","Author":"Mel Sacher","Time":"10/20/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"In the days before the absentee ballot was a common form of voting. There were the giant voting booths with the buttons and levers that allowed people to cast their vote for their favorite candidate. Going to the voting booth with my mom I remember hearing the loud noise the machine made as the votes were being recorded. Someone once told me they missed the old machines because they really felt like their vote was being counted with the pull of the lever and loud clanking noise. A lot has changed in the past 20-some years. Now, many people in Alderwood County vote by absentee ballot. I used to, but decided that I want to actually go to the voting booths this year. (You can change from voting absentee to voting at the polls by filling out a voter's registry and asking the auditor's office to change your method of voting.) Since I have voted absentee for several years, I decided it was time to return to the polls. Part of my decision, admittedly, is due to the new electronic voting system that has been put into place. I never really liked the voting ballots we had to punch with the \"high tech\" tab puncher. When I was in college voting absentee it was with a pencil or a pen. I think what really soured me on the former ballots is the forever seared image in my mind of a vote tallier in Florida holding a ballot up to the light, his glasses on his forehead, looking to see if there was any indication that the chad could still be attached and checking to see if other chads had been dimpled in a possible attempt to vote for the other party. I never realized there were so many possible ways to interpret a vote. I really don't like the new absentee ballot, which is larger than a road map and harder to use. During the primary I felt like I was plotting my route to buried treasure while trying to figure out which candidates I wanted to cast my vote for. I am excited to get my hands on the new voting machines. I think it will be an interesting step in the evolution of voting. It's kind of sad that the machines are so quiet. Maybe they can be programmed to make the large clanking noise when people cast their final votes, or maybe they can just have a voice say, \"You just voted.\" . Mel Sacher can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or e-mail msacher@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101242519790","Title":"Grandview Council takes first look at 2005 city budget","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"10/19/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"GRANDVIEW - Monday night, Grandview City Council got its first look at the 2005 budget. Although it's only October, council members are getting ready to pull up their sleeves and get to work on ensuring that the budget is drafted in a way that looks beyond next year, helping to ensure that the city continues to be in fair financial shape in the future. City Administrator Jim Sewell explained to council that over the years the city has felt the impact of several voter passed initiatives, noting that the city saw an initial reduction of 700,000 a year after those initiatives passed. \"How do we recover that revenue or make up that shortfall,\" Sewell asked council. He then explained that the city has made up the difference over the years through the additional taxes coming in from the new Wal-Mart distribution center, changes in operation and reductions the city has made over the years. And the city is expecting to make up the rest during the growing period that is currently being experienced. Sewell said new construction, new homes acity make up the rest of the revenue lost due to the passage of those initiatives. \"There's a lag time between any significant event and something that will pull you out of it,\" Sewell said. \"I think that lag time is now.\" According to Sewell, the city is looking at having an increase in its operating budget of more than 118,000 for 2005. The total operating expenses for 2005 are estimated at 3.5 million. Sewell explained that the increase will be absorbed by the city through its current expense fund balance. He noted that council recently decided to try and keep the fund balance above 400,000, instead of the 500,000 it had been aiming for in the past. \"[That] will help us through the lag time,\" Sewell said. Sewell added that the preliminary budget includes the city continuing to provide services at the same level that is currently offered. According to the preliminary budget, there are small increases in the operating budgets of several department funds. There is a 3 percent increase estimated in the street fund's operating budget, although Sewell said the level of service is expected to remain the same. Sewell said in the cemetery fund the operating budget is actually a little less than it was in 2004, noting that over the past year the revenue stream at the cemetery hasn't been has high as was expected. \"It could be pretty tight if revenue doesn't increase,\" Sewell said of the cemetery fund. The water and sewer fund could see a 6.9 percent increase over last year's budget, bringing its operating budget to 1,972,840. According to Sewell, a rate study is already underway with the engineer expected to talk to council about any necessary rate adjustments in November. There is an estimated 8 percent increase in the irrigation fund's operating expenses, bringing the total preliminary budget to 241,813 for 2005. Sewell told council this increase comes from the increased cost of irrigation rates. When it comes to the garbage fund there is also an increase in the operating budget. Sewell explained that the 36,010 increase will cover the cost of the community clean-up program, which the city implemented this year. The equipment rental fund could see a 23,420 increase in its operating budget for 2005. Sewell said the reason for this increase is the increased cost of fuel. He told council that half of the increase had to do with rising fuel costs. Grandview City Council will take a closer look at the 2005 budget in the coming weeks. The first budget session when council will begin working with the document is expected to take place Nov. 1. . Ellie Olmsen can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or e-mail her at eolmstead@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101242542321","Title":"Former Alderwood Mayor Don Hughes recovering from heart surgery","Author":"Jamie Smart","Time":"10/15/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Long-time Alderwood resident and former Alderwood Mayor Don Hughes is recovering nicely following heart surgery a week ago, according to a family member. Hughes was hospitalized while visiting his wife June's Mercer Island relatives, following a heart attack in early September, according to Hughes' sister, Barbara Atherton of Alderwood. Hughes is now recovering at a Redmond convalescent center and is expected to return home to Alderwood in the near future, Atherton said. She said her brother had been visiting relatives on Mercer Island when he was taken to Overlake Hospital. His surgery was delayed when he became ill with pneumonia. \"Don underwent bypass surgery a week ago Tuesday,\" Atherton said. \"He is now doing very well,\" she said. People interested in sending cards or notes to Hughes may mail them to June and Don Hughes, care of Vincent Kretz, 3617 74th Ave. S.E. Mercer Island, Wa. 98040"}
{"Id":"1101242542555","Title":"Choose right side","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"10/15/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"I have been very pleased to see the overwhelming level of support for President Bush in our community during this election season. Thankfully, most of us realize the need for Bush's leadership, resolve and clarity during this critical time in our history. While re-electing President Bush is certainly important, we also need to grab the opportunity to affect some positive change in our state and county. Dino Rossi has what it takes to solve the serious challenges facing us due to decades of liberal governors and out of control agencies. We need to get every vote we can possibly get in Eastern Washington to counter King and Pierce counties. Make sure that you get those friends, neighbors and family members of yours who only vote once in a while out to vote for Rossi this year. While we're out banging the drum for Bush and Rossi, let's show our county commissioners the meaning of the word accountability. Sandra Swanson and Mike Leita will make a dynamic team on the County Commission. Leita's vision, combined with Swanson's common sense no-new-taxes approach will help our county dig out from under the white elephant that threatens to crush Alderwood County's future. Unfortunately, not everyone utilizes logic and intellect when voting. These elections are going to be won by the side that pushes the hardest. Let's make sure it's the RIGHT side. /s/ Chad Werkhoven, Alderwood"}
{"Id":"1101242542790","Title":"Time to decide","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"10/15/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"This is the season of debates and decisions in the political world. We have watched with some concern and much frustration at the spin thrust at us by the major networks. We are wading our way through the hype to arrive at a choice that is the best one for our country. This is my conclusion. On the war on terrorism-this is the most serious issue facing not only the U.S., but the whole world. The terrorists are lawless killers, beheading the helpers and blowing up the innocent. They choose any time and any place on the globe. President Bush has my respect for the determined and sustained fight he has directed against them. Plus, he has engaged them on their own ground after 2001. I can't trust Senator Kerry to be tough enough. On the war in Iraq-we were all there reading the intelligence reports and hearing of the weapons capabilities and brutality of the dictator Sadam Hussein. We all awaited the results of the diplomacy efforts in the U.N. We then watched the month-long invasion and cheered on our troops. Now in hindsight, some want to shame that whole process and our military. President Bush acted quickly and decisively to knock out potential danger with the information he had. I feel safer with him in the White House. I can't trust Senator Kerry to be decisive enough. On domestic issues-I want a President who will help people help themselves, not establish a government program with attending bureaucracy to control our lives. I want a President who is not only passionate about education and about each child in our schools, but one who will act on that passion. I want a President who has 21st century ideas for our health care crisis, for prescription drug availability, for medical liability reform and for reforming Social Security. I want a President who acted quickly on tax reform to help our struggling economy, allowing families and small business owners to keep more of the money they earn. I want a President who cares enough about our forests to keep them from burning up. I want a President who cares enough about our land, water and air that he encourages stewardly use, not regulations and suits against us. I want a President that will select Supreme Court Justices that will only interpret our Constitution, not rewrite it. That President is George W. Bush. On moral issues-there is a wrong path many in this country are taking. It has to do with the suggestive videos and lyrics of current music, with excusing violence and vulgarity in the media, with complete disregard for personal and property rights. Worse, I believe, is a culture of death with the inhumane acts of gang killings, euthanasia and murders even toward our unborn citizens. Our President believes in a culture of life. He is strong and open about his faith. He and his wife Laura have restored integrity and honor in the White House. I believe they have earned our vote by the hard work they have done for us and the examples they have set. On Senator Kerry's record-we don't hear much about his lackluster 19 years in the Senate. The record shows he sponsored only five bills and four resolutions in that time and was absent more than half the time. Neither do we read much in the media about those years after the Vietnam War when his fellow servicemen felt betrayed by his words and actions. I really wonder why that hasn't been explored more fully. So in this season of commentary, sometimes witty, sometimes scornful, sometimes dishonest, I felt compelled to add mine and try to do none of those. This is what has been on my heart as I have considered the words of others. It's time to decide, and I have made my decision. /s/ Jerri Honeyford, Alderwood"}
{"Id":"1101242543258","Title":"Tacitly Yours","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"10/15/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Wednesday night I listened to the third and final presidential debate, and it wasn't so much what the candidates talked about during the debate that grabbed my attention. Instead, it was the discussion that took place after the debate that I found most interesting. I have watched or listened to all three of the presidential debates, spending time after each listening to the commentary that takes place from both parties. It's funny, but after each debate both parties work hard to declare their candidate as the winner. I've always thought it was funny that a presidential debate would have a winner to begin with. Maybe I'm a bit naive, but I always thought the presidential debates were meant to inform voters about each of the candidate's policies, and not to see who can \"win\" more of the debates. Regardless, after each debate the candidates' parties spend time simply reiterating what their candidate said. They are also sure to do what they can to make the opponent look bad. But Wednesday night, what really caught my attention was that the post debate conversation wasn't about which side looked better, sounded better or was wearing the best tie. Instead, it was about finding the truth in what each candidate had said. I was listening to National Public Radio (NPR) and I appreciated that the station had taken the time to get ahold of experts, not experts associated with any particular party, but experts who know the policies and history behind each candidate. I sat there and was blown away by some of the things that came to light during the post debate conversation on Wednesday night. I listened with interest as experts pointed out that some of the numbers Sen. John Kerry used during the debate when talking about employment rates were correct, but only if you excluded a large part of the job market - the government, which has seen a growth. I also listened as the experts pointed out that Kerry was incorrect in saying that President George Bush never took time to meet with the Black Congressional Caucus. Instead, the experts said Bush did meet with the caucus, but only when they boarded a bus and arrived at the White House uninvited. It doesn't matter which side of the fence a person is on, be it Republican or Democrat, I think there should be more reporting on the truth behind what each of the candidates say and less on the mudslinging that takes place nearly every election. I mean, should I have been shocked that NPR decided to look into the truth behind the words, instead of asking the different parties for their opinions on the debate. I think instead of being surprised by that type of debate reporting, that type of reporting should be expected. Don't voters deserve to know the truth? . Ellie Olmsen can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or e-mail her at eolmstead@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101242543493","Title":"Lady 'Hounds secure top spot in CWAC standings","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"10/15/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"GRANDVIEW - The Grandview High School Lady Greyhounds did what they had to Thursday night. Now, they find themselves sitting alone at the top of the CWAC standings. The Lady 'Hounds walked into the gym at Grandview High School with confidence and walked out with a number one spot in their league. The Grandview team was able to beat Ki-Be in three, winning by scores of 25-15, 25-22, 25-20. \"It was a good match,\" said Grandview Coach John LaFever. LaFever said his team played well against the Bears, adding that they really kicked up their defense Thursday night. He noted that players Angie Cabrera and Tonhya Wysong were really tough defensively against Ki-Be. Wysong ended the night with 41 digs, while Cabrera had 23. \"They had a good night defensively,\" LaFever said. LaFever added that the team also did a good job of spiking and blocking against Ki-Be. LaFever said the Ki-Be team looked good Thursday, adding that they did a lot of things really well. \"They went to their best players over and over again,\" LaFever said of Ki-Be. Despite its efforts, Ki-Be wasn't able to pull out a single game win against Grandview. Helping the Lady 'Hounds push past Ki-Be were freshman Kealey Johnston with 13 digs, 5 kills and 11 service points; Valentina Solis with 7 blocks, 13 kills and 12 service points; Danelle Cowan with 20 digs, 5 blocks and 17 kills; Chante Bottineau with 32 assists and 15 service points; and Mari Cornejo with 7 digs, 5 kills and 2 blocks. Grandview (9-0) has won all of its league matches by 3-0 scores this season. With only three matches left in the regular season, Grandview will play again next Thursday at East Valley. . Ellie Olmsen can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or e-mail her at eolmstead@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101242543758","Title":"Mystery rock leaves local folks with questions","Author":"Jamie Smart","Time":"10/13/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"This past Monday morning a loud crash startled long-time Alderwood resident Della Vasquez, leading her to the discovery of a mysterious rock resting on the roof of her South Hill Road home. Vasquez, who had never seen the rock on her roof before, thought it may have caused the large noise. \"At first she thought a car had crashed into her house, the noise was so loud,\" said Vasquez's daughter, Yollie Hernandez. But the rock was the only thing which seemed to be out of place when she investigated the cause of the crash. \"We don't know how it got up there,\" said Hernandez. \"It is too heavy to have been thrown up there to cause the noise,\" she said. \"At first we thought it might be a piece of fallout from Mount. St. Helen's, but that seemed improbable,\" she said. The rock, which weighs about 20 pounds, isn't a part of a meteorite either, according to Wayne Cone, a Alderwood High School science teacher. It's a pretty interesting rock, but it's not from outer space, he said. Cone, who along with fellow science teacher David Beals examined the rock Tuesday afternoon, said it also is not volcanic in nature. Cone said the rock is not basalt, as is normally found in the Alderwood Valley. \"It likely dates to the ancient Missoula flood, which formed much of the Alderwood Valley,\" he theorized. The rock appears to be formed of grandiorite, which accounts for its crystallized specks, Cone said. Now covered with slow growing lichens, the slightly elongated rock may have been a part of a rock wall at some point. \"There appears to be some type of sealant near the flat side of the rock,\" he noted. But just how it came to be on Mrs. Vasquez's roof is still a mystery. \"Someone may have placed it on the roof to hold something down,\" Cone suggested. But Mrs. Hernandez said no work has been done on her mother's roof in over a year. \"Still, it is a pretty cool rock,\" Cone said. \"But we still don't know what caused that loud noise my mother heard,\" Hernandez said"}
{"Id":"1101242544227","Title":"Lady 'Hounds win against Naches","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"10/13/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"NACHES - The Grandview High School Lady Greyhounds roared into Naches Tuesday night, winning against the Rangers and leaving them looking forward to their next match, which will determine the league champion. The Grandview team won against Naches by scores of 25-15, 25-12, 25-7. Grandview Coach John LaFever said his team looked pretty good against the Rangers. LaFever said the Grandview girls did a good job of getting the ball to the team's big hitters, adding that overall his team played a pretty good game. Helping the Lady 'Hounds defeat the Rangers were sophomore Chante Bottineau, who had 25 assists, 11 service points, 1 kill and 4 digs on the night. \"She played pretty well,\" LaFever said of Bottineau. \"She's running the team real well, and doing a good job serving.\" Also working hard for the Greyhounds were freshman Kealey Johnston with 10 service points, 2 kills and 17 digs; senior Mari Cornejo with 7 service points, 3 kills, 7 digs and 8 blocks; senior Valentina Solis with 11 kills, 2 digs and 2 blocks; junior Tonhya Wysong with 26 digs; senior Danelle Cowan with 6 service points, 13 kills, 8 digs and 10 blocks; and Angie Cabrera with 3 aces, 15 service points, 2 kills and 9 digs. LaFever added that although the team was playing Naches last night, they were already looking ahead to their next match. Thursday night the Lady 'Hounds will come up against Ki-Be in a match that will determine the league champion. \"Ki-Be will be for the outright league championship,\" LaFever said, adding that Thursday night's match should be a fun one to watch. The Lady 'Hounds (8-0) will take on Ki-Be at home Thursday night"}
{"Id":"1101242563493","Title":"Kepcha hopes to unseat Newhouse","Author":"Bob Story","Time":"10/12/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"58-year-old Michael Kepcha knows he has a snowball's chance in Hades of unseating 15th District Rep. Dan Newhouse (R) of Alderwood. But the Washougal resident, campaigning as a Democrat without the support of the party he represents, strongly believes he is the man for the House of Representatives seat in Olympia that Newhouse now holds. Kepcha, whom Newhouse handily defeated two years ago, swung through Alderwood last week to tout his views on why voters should consider him for the job. \"I know I said I wasn't going to run for public office again after the last election two years ago,\" Kepcha said. \"But nobody else decided to run against him this year. \"I'm re-running for the position because of Dan Newhouse. We have different views on what the community needs,\" Kepcha said. \"I might not be as effective as Mr. Newhouse is in Olympia,\" Kepcha concedes. \"But I think a different perspective is needed.\" When asked about specifics, Kepcha speaks about more funding for the schools. \"I'll fight for money for our school districts,\" he said. \"Every year more and more kids are coming out of high school, out into the job market. \"These kids need to be properly educated so they can find jobs after they're out of school,\" he stressed. Kepcha, a Vietnam veteran who is unemployed and said he spends much of his time caring for his mother, who is stricken with Alzheimer's, also believes the state needs to find more funding for geriatric and pediatric care. \"We're not spending enough on the medical care of infants or our elderly,\" said Kepcha. \"More needs to be done for the older people in our community, and for the children who aren't receiving the medical care they deserve.\" Kepcha said making health insurance affordable for all Washington residents is a problem that can no longer be addressed at the state level. \"It's too large of a problem to be fixed in Olympia,\" he said. \"It's something that needs to be fixed at the federal level.\" Kepcha went on to detail that he disagrees with the Republic Party's torte reform attempts, to put a lid on what people can recover when filing medical claims. \"I agree that the court settlements have gotten out of hand, but people need to have the ability to recover their losses when mistakes are made. \"Some kind of cap is probably needed, but not what the Republicans are suggesting. \"I read somewhere that 5 percent of the doctors are responsible for 95 percent of the claims,\" Kepcha continued. \"The problem could be taken care of if the medical association started to police itself. \"We also don't need to put a cap on L&I claims or settlements. I've met families who have been injured on the job. They need the money they're entitled to, all of it,\" he said. Kepcha also disagrees with the state GOP that Washington needs to recalculate how the state's minimum wage is adjusted each year. \"We don't need to freeze the minimum wage,\" he said. \"We're where we should be at compared to the other states.\" Kepcha said his chances of unseating Newhouse are slim, but he wants to give the voters of the 15th District an alternative when they vote in November. \"The two of us definitely don't have the same views. I'm the other choice,\" said Kepcha"}
{"Id":"1101242563790","Title":"High school singers invited to audition for cash","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"10/8/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"GRANDVIEW - The Rolling Hills Chorus of Sweet Adelines International is offering an opportunity to area high school singers to be guests at the Adelines' January 2005 show. The show, \"Hit Me With the Spotlight,\" will be held at the Alderwood High School auditorium Jan. 28, 2005. The musical, written and directed by chorus members, is about auditions for a \"Broadway\" musical, which will feature guest high school performers, said Eileen Duncan of the Rolling Hills Chorus. The would-be guest performers are now being encouraged to audition for the show, Duncan said. Those chosen to perform in the musical are eligible to win a scholarship to further their musical education, Duncan said. A first, second and third place scholarship will be awarded based on the vote of the audience the night of the performance, she explained. Auditions for high school singers will be held Saturday, Oct. 16, at the Bethany Presbyterian Church, Second Street and Birch Street in Grandview. There is no limit to the number of singers who can audition, however only three will be chosen for performing in the show. For information about the auditions call Jean Eakin, 882-3335, or Duncan 882-1420"}
{"Id":"1101242564305","Title":"Forum","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"10/8/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"1-Column Gibson deserves to be elected Many people don't give the candidates for Superior Court judge a thought until they are in the voting booth. You are different, you are looking for information and reading this letter to the editor. We have had a chance to work with, and get to know Blaine Gibson. Blaine listens, he gets to the point, is timely and fair. Blaine has 26 years of courtroom experience and has acted as a judge pro-tem, or as an arbiter, in dozens of cases. He teaches ethics at bar association seminars at the county and state levels. In a recent peer survey, Blaine Gibson was voted 90 to 7 over his opponent to be \"Best Qualified Overall to be Superior Court Judge.\" Blaine Gibson has the skills, the experience and the respect needed to be Superior Court judge. You cared enough to read this, please care enough to vote. /s/ Bernie and DiAnn Schutt, Alderwood Your destiny is in your hands I always admired Washington state when they had Senators Warren \"Maggie\" Magnuson and Henry \"Scoop\" Jackson in the \"Place of Power.\" They not only looked out for the best interests of Washington, but also America, especially Boeing. Washington needs and yearns for another Maggie or Scoop. Patty Murray belongs to the minority party and does not have a seat at the \"table of power.\" Patty votes her party line and is an obstructionist, a divider instead of a uniter in regard to the general good of the people. From your best memory, what has Patty done for you? George Nethercutt has a seat at the \"table of power\" in the House and also will have one in the Senate, likely of his choosing. Nethercutt is a uniter and has proved that by getting things done. The more I know about Nethercutt, the better I like him. I see another \"Maggie\" or another \"Scoop\" in Nethercutt if the people of Washington will give him a chance to prove himself. Patty hasn't displayed any of these attributes in all the years she has been in the Senate. Your destiny is in your hands. /s/ Bill Hauf, Juneton, Idaho Work appreciated on park programs If you read the letters to the editor, you probably notice that I am thanking a lot of people and businesses in our community for their involvement with the Alderwood Parks and Recreation programs and facilities. Due to the fact that the budget for the department has been cut by 20 percent ( 156,730) over the last two years, we are in need of volunteers helping us with programs and maintenance of our parks and facilities. In 2003, the department had over 625 volunteers working more than 29,000 hours in programs, youth sports, special events and maintenance. I hear a few citizens tell me that they pay too much in taxes and do not use the programs, parks and facilities. Last year, there were 17,000 participants in our recreation programs and classes for youth, adults and senior citizens. 35,500 used the swimming pool, and approximately 37,500 rented parks and facilities. These numbers total 90,000 individuals who were involved in the programs and facilities that are offered by the Alderwood Parks and Recreation Department. Over the past five years the department is providing more programs and maintenance with less funding. Recently, SunnyView Park hosted a softball tournament with 20 teams playing. Of the 20 teams, 16 traveled to Alderwood to compete in the tournament. Each team consists of at least 11 players. If you figure that some players have family that came with them to the tournament, you can guess that each team had approximately 50 people attending the tournament. Sixteen teams multiplied by 50 people equals 800 people. If over the three-day tournament each person spends 25 per day on food, gas and lodging expenses, this would total 60,000 in business to the City of Alderwood. The city will expend approximately 32,000 to maintain this park for the entire year. This one example shows the need and rationale to continue support for the parks and recreation programs and facilities. The city of Alderwood is very fortunate to have the parks and facilities within our community. The city council has been very supportive and proactive in maintaining the current assets and expanding with new parks and facilities, such as Centennial Square, SunnyView Park and the new community center. With summer having come to a close, I want to thank all the staff that has worked to make our parks, pool and programs successful. I would like to also thank the members of the Parks and Recreation Commission for the time and effort that they volunteer to serve on the commission. I appreciate the work that all of the staff has done over the past months to make all our programs and facilities successful. /s/ Don Stiles, Director, Alderwood Parks and Recreation Department"}
{"Id":"1101242564821","Title":"Grandview City Council Briefs","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"10/7/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"1-Column Council opts to leave damaged intersection as four-way stop GRANDVIEW - Monday night, Grandview City Council voted to leave the damaged intersection at Grandridge Road and West Second Street as a four-way stop, for now. The intersection was damaged two weeks ago when a semi-truck hit one of the overhead wires and a fire hydrant, bringing down several service poles and the stop lights they supported. Council opted to leave the intersection as a four-way stop while the city pursues emergency funding through the Transportation Improvement Board. The funding would make it possible for the city to upgrade the intersection to include a steel pole signal system with mast arms, pedestrian signals and a new turn radius that would make it easier for semi-trucks to make it through the intersection. The estimated cost of the upgrade is 262,000. Council approves final plat for phase three of new subdivision GRANDVIEW - Monday night, Grandview City Council approved the final plat for Vista Villas phase three. The new subdivision is located off of Highland Road in Grandview. The approval of the final plat means that developer Mike Johnson will be able to begin selling lots. Council approves minimizing fence permit fee GRANDVIEW - Grandview City Council members voted Monday night to minimize the fee to obtain a building permit for a fence. Previously the total fee included a 20 permit issuance fee, a 38 permit fee and a 4.50 state fee, making the total fee for a fence permit 62.50. Council voted to eliminate the 20 issuance fee, therefore bringing down the total to 42.50. Council sets first budget hearing GRANDVIEW - Grandview City Council will take its first look at the 2005 budget later this month. Monday night, Grandview City Council members set Oct. 18 as the date for their first budget meeting. The meeting will begin at 6 p.m. and take the place of the regular study session. City approves annexation request GRANDVIEW - Grandview City Council voted to approve an annexation and rezone request made by Everett and Betty Adamson, Everett and Stephanie Adamson and Chuck and Kim Stegeman. All of the property involved in the annexation is located on Pleasant Avenue in Grandview, just outside the current city limits. The group petitioning for annexation is also asking that their property, which is all zoned residential through Alderwood County, be rezoned single family residential by the city. The annexation request will now go to the Grandview Planning Commission for a public hearing"}
{"Id":"1101242565571","Title":"Still time to register to vote in General Election","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"10/5/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"The clock is ticking for those citizens who have not yet registered to vote in November's general election. Anyone who wants to vote in the Nov. 2 election still has until Oct. 18 to register for the election. Mail-in registrations must be postmarked no later than Oct. 2 to be valid, said Tina Beck of the Alderwood County Elections Department. \"But if you haven't mailed in your registration form by Oct. 2, you can still register in-person at the Alderwood County Auditor's office in the county courthouse to be assured a ballot on Nov. 2,\" she said. Beck said mail-in and absentee ballots will be mailed out Oct. 13"}
{"Id":"1101242585446","Title":"Planning for new aquatic center continues","Author":"Mel Sacher","Time":"10/1/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"GRANDVIEW - The compiled results of the nearly 300 surveys concerning a new aquatic center in Grandview proposal were reviewed by the Grandview Parks and Recreation Service Area Board last night. According to Grandview Parks and Recreation Director Mike Carpenter, some of the most important services members of the community desire are swim lessons, open swim, family swim and parent-taught classes. Also scoring high was picnicking. Carpenter said the zero-depth portion of the pool, which would be a pool experience much like going to the ocean, was also looked upon positively by those surveyed, as were water slides and a competition pool tank. Also important to potential users is a playground area. The surveys were collected over the summer to help the board focus on what the community would like to see in a new aquatic center. Carpenter said they received completed surveys from pool users, senior citizens, service club members and residents at-large. According to the survey, of those surveyed at the swimming pool 122 people would vote in favor of a bond for a new pool. Four said they would not vote for an aquatic center and five were undecided, said Carpenter. Of the business persons who completed the survey, 15 said they would vote in favor of a bond to pay for the new aquatic center. One said they would not support the venture. Of the senior citizens who returned surveys, two said they would vote in favor of a new pool and two said they would vote against it. Ten of the surveys returned from service groups indicated they would vote in favor of the bond. Three service group members were undecided. Fifty-two members of the community at-large said they would support a bond for a new aquatic center and six said they would not vote in favor of the bond, said Carpenter. \"That's huge,\" said Grandview City Councilwoman Pam Horner, who sits on the board, speaking of the support that was indicated in the surveys. Board chairman Dave Copeland said that a concern he has heard in recent days is where the playing fields will be located when the new aquatic center is built on what is now Euclid Park, which is located on the corner of Euclid Road and W. Second Street. \"We need to be very sensitive to the things that are being displaced at that park,\" said Copeland. Currently there are two softball fields, tennis courts and soccer fields at the park, all of which are used on a regular basis. Carpenter said that since 2000 the Grandview School District has developed two additional ball fields, which should meet the softball needs of the community. He added that there may be room at Country Park and Fairgrounds for a soccer field. Carpenter said that working with the school district they may be able to find other fields that can be utilized for some of the sports programs. Another concern Copeland has heard regards congestion in the area. \"I thought it was one of the better locations,\" Copeland added. The board members agreed that with the traffic lights and widened streets the Euclid Park area is the best place for the aquatic center. He added that the location is also the most visible since anyone going to a middle school or high school ballgame in town has to pass by the park. The park and rec service area board spent the majority of the meeting in a teleconference with engineers with TSE Architecture, Engineering and Planning discussing the direction of the pool campaign. A date for the pool vote is still up in the air, but Carpenter hopes to nail down a time in a meeting with a campaign specialist Monday morning. The group is looking at holding the election in April, May or September of 2005. The board hopes to be on a ballot by itself. Copeland said that in 2000 they were part of the general election. 49 percent of the votes, or 1,377, were in favor of the pool. 51 percent, or 1,421, voted against the aquatic center. 326 ballots were blank, which Copeland believes is partly attributed to placement on the ballot. The board shared a community update with the engineers explaining that since 2000, when the SPLASH committee first pushed for a swimming pool, there have been some major improvements to the community. Besides the construction of new homes and two new schools, the community also has a large, new tax base in the Wal-Mart distribution center. Copeland said that the new distribution center has already reduced the school levy impact by about 40 cents per 1,000 of assessed value. \"There's another opportunity to lessen that with additional hiring,\" Copeland added. He said that where the aquatic center bond in 2000 was for about 1.20 per 1,000 of assessed value, he expects that the new bond will be for less than 1 per 1,000. Carpenter shared with the engineers the survey findings and said that in the most recent survey an indoor facility isn't as high of priority with the group polled. Carpenter is also concerned about an indoor component since they tend to lose money. He said that the indoor Pullman facility costs about 300,000 to operate each year and only generates about 100,000 in revenue. Copeland indicated that the aquatic center will be scaled back from the original facility proposed four years ago. He said there is a possibility to phase in other components, such as an indoor pool or extra slides. In preparation for the campaign, the board has visited other aquatic centers in Eastern Washington and Oregon. Board members discussed the possibility of finding grant funds to help with the development of the pool. Carpenter said the only grant he is aware of is with the Interagency for Outdoor Recreation, but one of the requirements is to have an updated parks and recreation comprehensive plan, which the City of Grandview does not have. \"We don't have any budget at this time,\" said Carpenter of the parks and rec service area board. The committee would also have to come up with a 50 percent match, which Horner suggested could be the city's donation to the park. TSE representative Jay Ruud said he will look into the possibility of finding the funds to develop a parks and rec plan for the city, which Carpenter said isn't much different than past comprehensive plans they have had. Ruud also suggest they look at economic development grant opportunities to help fund the pool. He said that it is important to look at how an aquatic center will impact a city and a region. He explained that aquatic centers draw visitors. The center in Pendleton draws rodeo attendees and those attending softball tournaments, said Ruud. \"It really is an enlivening of the city and economic development. It clearly is seen as an economic generator,\" he added. Ruud added that the City of Naches was able to receive grant funding because their old swimming pool was not heated, which is the same for the Grandview pool. Another possibility, said Copeland, is building a scaled back aquatic center and then having a catalogue with items members or businesses in the community can purchase for the center. One woman in Ephrata signed a page of a catalogue purchasing a 250,000 slide for that community's aquatic center. Copeland said Grandview could purchase one slide and make sure the infrastructure is ready in case someone wants to purchase the other one in the future. \"I think the people will buy something if they see value in it,\" said County Commissioner John Posse, who sits on the parks board. \"They'll see value in it if it's not stripped down too much.\" \"We can't sell ourselves short, either,\" Carpenter added. \"We've got to build something that's going to make money.\" . Mel Sacher can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or e-mail msacher@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101242585681","Title":"Forum","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"10/1/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"In response to Angela Meister's letter in the Sept. 24 edition of the Alderwood Daily News and those that think like her-I haven't seen this much disinformation and propaganda since former President Clinton tried to redefine the word \"is\". I'm not sure a response is possible using less than 300 words. So, what did President Bush do after 9/11? Considering that almost your entire letter complained about the things President Bush has done speaks volumes as to the fact that he has indeed done things. Why you base progress on what other nations decide to say and do, especially France and Germany, is beyond me. I certainly do not want the United Nations deciding whether Americans have a right to defend themselves when needed. How is marching, and lets not forget partying, in the streets of New York carrying signs that say \"Bush is Hitler\" going to root out these terrorist thugs from their hiding places, caves or otherwise, halfway around the world? Even if you could organize a crowd to protest the brutality of people the likes of Usama bin Laden, I'm almost certain that Usama and his band of merry men would still be free to travel, get together in their safe underground bunkers and plot ways to kill other human beings. Jumping to Iraq-how does waiting around for months on end, not to mention 12 years when you go back as far as the cease fire agreement made in 1991, equate to \"rushing into Iraq\"? What is interesting though, after cracking down on Saddam Hussein in Iraq, is that Libya decided to voluntarily hand over all of their weapons of mass destruction. Weapons, by the way, that we did not even know they had. On to Afghanistan, hundreds of Al Qaeda terrorists have been flushed out and flushed off the planet earth. Many of these were, and I emphasize \"were,\" in the upper levels of leadership. If more up and coming terrorists, being \"taught\" to hate and kill at young ages by radical extremists, are stupid enough to head to Iraq then keep handing out those \"one-way\" tickets. It will be much easier for our military to dispose of them there vs. chasing them all over the world. On to North Korea, we see that the Clinton administration was indeed keen on talking to the communist dictator, Kim Jong-il of North Korea-why I do not know. I do know that former Secretary of State Madeleine Albright finally admitted that Kim Jong-il was cheating and violating the arms control treaty, words on a piece of paper, that dealt with nuclear fuel rods in the North Korean dictator's possession. I'm shocked! Just how far has the state of world affairs sunk when you can't even trust communist dictators to honor the agreements they make? Far too many of our military men and women have died facing this ugly task. You just aren't connecting the dots, however, if you believe that sitting around, while terrorists plan and organize, is a viable solution to dealing with the madness these terrorists possess. Even President Vladimir Putin of Russia learned that you can't sit idly by when his country witnessed the horror of over 30 terrorists overpowering some 1,000 innocent human beings on the first day of school in Beslan. Some of our wounded soldiers have even expressed a desire to go back to Iraq. Imagine that! There are simply no braver human beings on this earth than the men and women who serve in the military and my family sends our heartfelt thanks to them and their families for the sacrifices they have made in undertaking this task \"voluntarily\". And where in the world did you come up with the idea that a secret draft is about to happen? That does, after all, require an act of Congress. We wouldn't be trying to scare people, now would we? Besides, if the terrorists hit the United States again you won't need to worry about a draft as there won't be a large enough building able to handle the onslaught of volunteers rushing to join. Sen. Kerry has boldly said that he would fight terrorism tougher than President Bush. How can this be? Following Ms. Meister's logic, Sen. Kerry must have visions of an even bigger super duper secret draft in the works. So parents of military age children, and every 18 to 26 year old voter, be afraid, be very, very, afraid of Sen. Kerry's super secret terrorism draft plans and vote accordingly. Will John Kerry do better? Again, better at what? Ms. Meister didn't say and neither has he. Wait, I think I've got it. Sen. John Kerry would talk more and do more of nothing. I believe that's what we had when Bill Clinton was President. As my junior high coach used to say when I messed up a play, \"Son, you need to put your thinking cap on\". When it comes to fighting terrorism there are apparently millions of Americans who need to put their thinking caps on. /s/ Tim Lick, Alderwood"}
{"Id":"1101242586149","Title":"Obituaries","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"9/30/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"ABEL BARAJAS ABEL BARAJAS Abel Barajas, 18, of Mattawa died Sunday, Sept. 26, 2004, due to injuries sustained in an automobile accident. He was born Nov. 23, 1985 in Mexico, the son of Jose M. and Elva (Bravo) Barajas. He received his education in Mattawa, graduating with the class of 2004. He is survived by his parents, Jose and Elva Barajas of Mattawa; three sisters, Balanca, Monica and Carina Barajas, all of Mattawa; and his grandparents, Salvador and Elva Bravo of Mexico and Leonor Barajas of Beverly. He is also survived by a large number of aunts, uncles, nephews, nieces and cousins. He was preceded in death by his grandfather, Jesus Barajas. Viewing and visitation will be held Friday, Oct. 1, 2004, from 1to 8 p.m. with a Rosary to be recited at 6 p.m. at Jones Funeral Home, Alderwood. Mass of Christian Burial will be held Saturday, Oct. 2, 2004, at 10 a.m. at St. Joseph Catholic Church, Alderwood. Burial will be at Lower Valley Memorial Gardens, under the direction of Jones Funeral Home, Alderwood. MOISES S. Martinez SR. Moises S. Martinez Sr., 74, of Mabton died Wednesday, Sept. 29, 2004, at Alderwood Community Hospital. He was born May 29, 1930 in Monterrey, Mexico to Maria De Los Angeles (Silva) and Cresencio Martinez. He is survived by four daughters, Norma Trevino Martinez of Mabton, Gloria Alaniz of Grandview, Martha Alicia Vidales of Alderwood and Rita Trevino Martinez of Yakima; and three sons, Moises Martinez Jr. of Yakima, Chris Martinez of Mabton and Jose Angel Martinez of Alderwood. Jones Funeral Home, Alderwood, is in charge of arrangements. HAZEL M. HANNAMAN Hazel M. Hannaman, 89, of Grandview died Sunday, Sept. 26, 2004, at her home in Grandview. She was born Nov. 29, 1914 in Jayton, Texas, the daughter of Lee and Mary Frances (Luman) Rasberry. She received her education in Texas. On March 1, 1933 she married John Chester in Texas. Following their marriage they moved to California before settling in Grandview in 1946. She later married Glenn O. Bill Hannaman on Dec. 31, 1964 in Coeur d Alene, Idaho. She was manager of the Grandview VFW for many years. She is survived by her two daughters, Linda Turner and husband, John, of Paducah, Kent. and Pat Bratta and husband, Caesar, of Los Angles, Calif.; 12 grandchildren and 21 great-grandchildren; one sister, Alene Nelson of Texas; one brother, Buddy Edwards Jr. of Texas; and a daughter-in-law, Ann Chester of Grandview. She was preceded in death by her parents; two husbands, John Chester and Glenn O. Bill Hannaman; one son, Johnie Lee Chester in 1996; and two granddaughters, Christie Lee Turner and Ready Ann Mitra. Private memorial funeral services were held at Jones Funeral Home, Grandview. MABEL V. GABBERT Mabel V. Gabbert, 96, of Spokane passed away Tuesday, Sept. 28, 2004, surrounded by her loving family. She was born June 12, 1908 in Mabton, the daughter of Charles W. and Olive (Bates) Barlow. Mabel s love for gardening, roses and iris were evident at her retirement home. Mabel was a member of the Deer Park Seventh-day Adventist Church and was deeply devoted to her family and religion. She was known for always wearing hats with gloves and scarves on special occasions. Mabel is survived by her children, Stanley Johnston of Springdale, Ralph Tipton of Spokane, Joyce (Ronald) Knutson of Springdale, John Johnston of Alderwood, Darlene (Lee) Cooley of Wapato and Carol (Ron) Costa of San Diego, Calif.; 20 grandchildren; 37 great-grandchildren and nine great-great-grandchildren. Visitation will be Saturday, Oct. 2, 2004, from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. at Hennessey Jones Funeral Home Chapel, 2203 N. Division St., Spokane. Funeral services will be held Sunday, Oct. 3, 2004, at 1:30 p.m. at Hennessey Jones Funeral Home Chapel. To honor Mabel, her family members and friends will be wearing hats to the service. Committal services will be Tuesday, Oct. 5, 2004, at 1 p.m. and will take place at Mabton City Cemetery, 881 Vance Rd., Mabton. Memorial contributions are suggested to Spokane Junior Academy, 1505 W. Cleveland, Spokane, WA 99205. Arrangements have been entrusted to Hennessey Jones Funeral Home, Spokane"}
{"Id":"1101242586384","Title":"Alderwood City Council Briefs","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"9/28/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"1-Column Consent items OK d by council The Alderwood City Council approved the consent items on last night's agenda. The approval of the consent items included the minutes of the Sept. 13 meeting, as well as a list of vouchers for payment that totaled 494,335. Also approved by Council was Harley and Nancy Riel's request for a renewal of their liquor license at The Pub, located at 432 S. Sixth St. Resolution adopted for land acquisition procedures A resolution adopted by the Alderwood City Council Monday evening paves the way for the completion of the South First Street improvement project. Because federal funds are being used for the upgrade, the project falls under the jurisdiction of the Federal Highway Administration. One of the components of compliance with the federal agency is adopting a \"Right of Way Procedures,\" which is applicable to acquisitions of rights-of-way that are necessary to complete the project. Because the city personnel that were designated for such acquisitions have changed since the last street improvement project in Alderwood, a resolution was adopted by Council last night that provides an updated procedure. In essence, new City Manager Tom Rockford is now designated to handle all administrative settlements relating to land acquisitions, including executing right of way procedures on behalf of the City of Alderwood. The resolution also calls for City Engineer Jim Bridges to serve as the South First Street project acquisition officer. Bicycles declared surplus items More than 70 bicycles the Alderwood Police Department has recovered or found since 2001 will be disposed of through either sealed bid, auction or donated to a charitable organization. The Alderwood City Council Monday evening adopted a resolution that declares the bicycles as surplus items. Under state law, the local police department had to attempt to locate the owners of the bicycles before they could be declared as surplus. Deal struck to house prisoners from westside An interlocal jail agreement between the City of Alderwood and Mountlake Terrace was approved by the Alderwood City Council Monday evening. The agreement calls for the Alderwood Police Department to accept prisoners from the Seattle area community at a rate of 35 per day. The obligation to accept Mountlake Terrace prisoners is on a \"space available\" basis. Terms of the agreement include the Alderwood Police Department providing transportation, if available, to pick up the Mountlake Terrace prisoners, and Alderwood accepting bail, fines or other money for Mountlake Terrace for those prisoners held in the Alderwood jail. Council s Oct. 11 meeting canceled Because of a lack of agenda items, the regularly scheduled Oct. 11 Alderwood City Council meeting has been canceled. In voting last night to cancel the October meeting, the City Council left the door slightly ajar, as the stipulation was made that the Oct. 11 meeting would be held if an agenda item surfaces between now and then"}
{"Id":"1101242586665","Title":"Public speaks out against proposed PacifiCorp rate increase","Author":"Mel Sacher","Time":"9/28/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"YAKIMA - Washington Utilities and Transportation Commissioner Patrick Oshe and Dennis Moss, presiding judge over a public hearing held Tuesday night at the Alderwood County Courthouse, gathered public comment on a proposed PacifiCorp rate increase. The three-person utilities and transportation commission is taking public input from PacifiCorp customers in Eastern Washington on their reasons why the company should or should not be allowed to raise rates. The company is proposing a 13.5 percent, or 26.7 million dollar a year, increase to customers, according to Moss. The rate increase would be used to cover increasing costs to serve customers in Washington and across the company's six-state service area. If approved, a typical customer would likely see a 7.45 a month increase in power costs. The proposed rate increase was filed last December. The Washington Utilities and Transportation Commission staff and PacifiCorp agreed to a settlement of a 15.5 million annual revenue increase on Aug. 24, 2004. If the commissioners approve that agreement, a normal household would see a 4.61 monthly rise in their electric bills. Moss explained that the Industrial Customers of Northwest Utilities and the Public Council division of the Attorney General's office do not agree with the proposed settlement. Other groups oppose the rate increase since PacifiCorp filed a general rate increase in 1999, seeking 25.8 million in increases. In the settlement reached in 2000, all parties agreed to a five-year plan for the rate increases, which were supposed to be followed by two years with no increases, according to the Citizens Utility Alliance. In December 2003, PacifiCorp came back with another rate increase. Robert Cromwell of the Attorney General's public council division said that PacifiCorp broke the five-year rate plan when it came back with another rate increase. At the public hearing he said it is the public council's position that the rates be reverted back to the 2000 rate plan. Maury Manyoky and Carol Fulsom-Hill both spoke against rate increases on behalf of non-profits, who serve the poor and homeless in the Yakima area. Manyoky said that Alderwood County is one of the poorest in the state and much of the housing is very poor quality. He said his group, the Alderwood County Coalition for the Homeless, helps 3,000-4,000 individuals and families each year who aren't able to afford basic needs. Most of the families, he said, earn between 349 and 600 a month. Manyoky said that his organization helps families who aren't able to pay their bills, especially the electric bill. Hill said that her organization, the Yakima Interfaith Coalition, also provides needy families with services. She said the average electric bill they help with is 29, but there are also bills that are 100, 200 and 350 their office sees. \"There are elderly who call us and choose to pay their power bill over buying prescriptions,\" said Hill. \"Rent is very high and there is not a lot of disposable income.\" Last year, Hill added, her organization had a budget of 103,000 and 16,000 was paid out in direct services, such as paying electric bills. Alderwood resident Lucian Pace also testified at Tuesday's hearing, saying that many in the Alderwood Valley who depend on agriculture will be affected by rate increases. \"A lot of people have to pump water and therefore their electricity (bill) would be through the roof,\" said Pace. Pace added that many of the elderly in the Lower Valley are on fixed incomes and will not be able to afford a rate increase. \"Increases in electricity will not only affect their homes, it will affect their livelihood,\" said Pace. \"I would like to see it stabilized, not a big increase.\" PacifiCorp customer Rich Rowland of Yakima said as a private homeowner he has seen a number of rate increases over the years. \"Sometimes it's kind of hard to swallow (the electric bill) in the winter months,\" he added. He said that he believes when a company files a rate increase they should have to abide by it for a few years. Company stockholder Curtis Strausz of Cowiche said he feels he has not received enough information on the subject, but he said, \"like everyone else here speaking against the rate increase I am not enamored with higher rates.\" Also speaking out against higher rates was Chris Linschooten of Yakima. He said there should be no rate increase until 2006. Linschooten read into the record a portion of a Bonneville Power Administration newsletter, which detailed how the BPA was able to reduce costs by selling equipment that isn't being used and finding other ways to cut costs. \"I wonder if this company (PacifiCorp) here is doing any of this?\" questioned Linschooten. \"Who is checking their costs? Are their costs real or hyped up?\" A retired mechanical engineer who built airplanes, ships and also worked for Hanford, Linschooten said he doesn't remember getting a 7.5 percent pay raise. \"The electricity rates are really high for us,\" he added. Yakima resident Alfred Carlson also spoke out against the rate increase. He said that the area is teetering on economic disaster and many are living on very low, fixed incomes. \"It does not look to me that the rate increase benefits the user, but rather the share holder who will get a better than 8 percent return on their investment. \"I encourage the company to tighten its belts like everyone else,\" added Carlson. Bill Douglas of Selah, who sits on the PacifiCorp advisory board for the Yakima area, feels the company has been doing a great job of providing service to the Northwest. He said that customers haven't had to worry about blackouts, like California did following the Enron scandal. He said that if the commission feels PacifiCorp should be allowed the increase or the settlement it would not be too much. Douglas said rate increases have not kept up with inflation. At the end of public testimony the hearing was continued so that additional information can be gathered in other hearings. A decision regarding the proposed settlement and rate increase is expected to be decided in early November. . Mel Sacher can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or e-mail msacher@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101242587149","Title":"Lady 'Hounds third at 4A tourney","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"9/27/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"LAKE STEVENS - The Lady Greyhounds took their show on the road Saturday, showing several 4A schools just what the 2A Grandview team is made of. Saturday, the Lady 'Hounds played in the Lake Stevens tournament against 4A teams from Monroe, Jackson, Port Angeles, Everett and Lake Stevens. At the end of the day, the Grandview team had played 11 games in five matches, coming home with a third place finish. \"It was a pretty good day,\" said Grandview Coach John LaFever about the Lady 'Hounds performance. The Grandview team managed to push past Monroe by scores of 25-20 and 25-13, then split against Jackson, winning 24-21, then losing 25-18. The next team the Lady 'Hounds faced was from Port Angeles, a team the Grandview girls defeated 25-12 and 25-8. The next team on Grandview's list was host Lake Stevens, a team the Lady 'Hounds beat by scores of 25-22 and 25-19. The final match of the day saw Grandview face off against Everett. The 'Hounds lost in three by scores of 12-25, 25-21 and 13-15. Although Grandview was going up against a group of 4A teams, LaFever said many of them are teams the Lady 'Hounds have played in the past. This is a tournament his team traditionally takes part in. LaFever said taking part in a 4A tournament like the one held in Lake Stevens this past weekend exposes his team to different styles of play. \"It's nice to get to see [the other teams] play a little different style of defense,\" LaFever said. He added that it helps prepare his team to adapt to those different styles of play. \"They get more experience, in case we meet a team from a town that plays like that,\" LaFever said. \"We want to get as much experience as possible against different teams.\" He said it's also nice to expose his team to different playing arenas, noting that it gives the team a chance to go to the Everett area and see where each of the teams in the tournament are from and where they play. Many of the players on the Grandview team showed that they can handle the diversity that playing larger schools brings with it. Senior Danelle Cowan racked up 32 kills, 4 aces and 16 blocks for the day, Valentina Solis had 22 kills, 9 aces and 16 blocks, Mari Cornejo had 12 kills and 8 blocks, Kealey Johnston had 13 kills, 43 digs, 6 aces and 42 service points. \"She did a really good job,\" LaFever said of Johnston. Also helping out the team was setter Chante Bottineau with 63 assists, 5 aces and 43 service points for the day. Angie Cabrera had 3 kills and 20 digs for the Lady 'Hounds, Jessica Gonzalez had 4 services aces and 5 service points, and Tonhya Wysong had 60 digs. LaFever said freshman Christine Penwell was brought up to the varsity team during the tournament and got her first four varsity kills during the course of the day. LaFever said playing in the tournament proved to be a good experience for his team. It was such a good experience that the Grandview team will be facing off against more 4A schools this coming weekend in the Wenatchee tournament. But before the team can head to Wenatchee they will play a league match-up against East Valley Tuesday night and against Othello Thursday night"}
{"Id":"1101242587399","Title":"Forum","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"9/24/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"1-Column Not a Bush supporter After 9/11 it was obvious to all Americans that fighting terrorism was a number one priority. So what did President Bushdo? Did he build upon the upswell of support from other nations after the attack? No in the rush into Iraq he alienated numerous long term allies of the U.S. Did he commit more resources to Afghanistan to flush out the Al Quida leadership? No he started a major disaster in Iraq instead. How many terroristshave been created by this nightmare? How many of our brave American soldiers have been killed or severely wounded? How many more will be put in harm's way when the draft that the government is quietly trying to introduce passes? Did Bush continue the talks with North Korea to contain their nuclear abilities? No he stopped the talks initiated by the Clinton administration. Didhe at least protect targets at home, such as power plants, chemical plants, bridges? No he started thejob by initiating a Department of Homeland Security, then failed to fully fund it. Meanwhile, police resources are stretched thin and nearly two-third's of firehouses are understaffed. Will John Kerry do better? Millions of Americans think he will. This election is the most important one in my lifetime. Please vote. /s/ Angela Meister, Grandview George Nethercutt deserves your vote A few months ago, my nephew was injured during a night mission delivering fuel to an army base in Iraq. He has recovered, is back on mission, and was recently awarded a Purple Heart. I became concerned about his (and his unit's) future safety when I learned that his unit lacked the appropriate number of Night Vision Goggles to safely perform their night-time missions. I was so concerned that I wrote to both Washington senators and two members of Congress to request their help. Why am I telling you this? I want you to know that the only response I received (four e-mails and three phone calls) was from Dan Simmons at Congressman George Nethercutt's office. Congressman Nethercutt's office subsequently initiated a \"Congressional inquiry\" into the situation, and I have recently received confirmation from Iraq, that within days of this inquiry, the unit received 34 additional Night Vision Goggles for use in their convoys. This may be a coincidence, I'll never know. What I do know is the unit got what they needed to improve their safety. While I don't live in Congressman Nethercutt's congressional district, and neither does my nephew, he took action. Virtually every other congressional office responds only to constituents that actually live in their \"specific\" congressional district. The congressman from my \"actual\" district, and both senators, never responded to my inquiry. That doesn't mean they didn't (or did) act on my request. It just means they never responded. I have never before solicited support from friends and family for a political race. I am today. Congressman Nethercutt is running for senator this November. Please, consider my endorsement of him when you cast your vote. Please vote! /s/ Ray Hallett, Hallett Cinemas, LLC, Alderwood TV ad absurd Why doesn't Sen. Patty Murray spend money on issues that matter? Murray's new TV ad accusing George Nethercutt of moving to Bellevue is absurd. Instead of talking about issues that really matter, Murray is taking the easy way out and painting Nethercutt as a liar and abandoner of his district, when he is anything but that. There are serious issues that face our state issues like tax reform, health care and medical liability reform. And Murray is hiding from her poor voting record, and instead promoting campaign rhetoric. She is shying away from debates and refuses to come clean on the issues. I hope voters can see past the rhetoric Murray puts out there and are able to make a conscious decision about who they want to elect to represent us. /s/ Brad Fisher, Kennewick"}
{"Id":"1101242612790","Title":"UFW leader Dolores Huerta to speak in Alderwood tonight","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"9/24/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"United Farm Workers Union leader Dolores Huerta will be in Alderwood this evening to help launch \"Latinos for John Kerry,\" an outreach effort to attract Hispanic voters to the Kerry presidential campaign. Huerta, the 74-year-old co-founder of the United Farm Workers Union, will be appearing at Navarro's Community Center, 548 South Sixth St. at 6 p.m. Joining Huerta at the voters' rally will be State Representative Phyllis Gutierrez Kenney. The Alderwood rally will be used to announce the members of the state's Latino Vote Campaign steering committee and the Democrats' outreach plan to attract large numbers of Latino voters to the 2004 presidential election. Huerta, who co-founded the UFW with Cesar Chavez, is now the co-chair of Women for Kerry. She has been traveling around the country speaking to women's groups and Latinos. Kenney chairs the state House Higher Education committee and grew up in the Alderwood Valley. Tonight's rally is co-sponsored by the Washington State Democrats"}
{"Id":"1101242613071","Title":"Lady Grizzlies muzzle Scotties","Author":"Mel Sacher","Time":"9/24/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"COWICHE - The Alderwood High School ladies soccer team defeated the Highland Scotties, 6-3, in a non-league game Thursday afternoon. Injuries yet again plagued the Alderwood team as top stopper Fatima Ruelas was injured in the opening minutes of the game. Alderwood Coach Kathy Jolliff said that Ruelas went to make a turn and her body turned while her foot stayed planted. Although her injuries have not yet been determined, Jolliff said most likely she will be healing for a while. The first goal of the game was scored by Alderwood player Yanet Candido in the 15th minute of the match-up. Yanet was open and scored an unassisted goal, said Jolliff. Two minutes later in the game Highland stepped up and scored, said Jolliff. \"It wasn't part of the plan,\" said Jolliff. Playing in a non-league game, Jolliff took seven junior varsity players to give them some play time in a varsity game. Going into halftime knotted up at 1-1, Jolliff said she told her girls they needed to step up. \"We started the game out strong and at about 15 or 20 minutes I started working in JV players,\" said Jolliff. At the 42-minute mark in the game Alderwood scored its second goal. Alderwood's Cassie Jolliff crossed the ball to Victoria Garza, who then fed the ball to Araceli Morales, said Jolliff. Two minutes later, Highland scored a second goal to tie it at 2-2. In the 51st minute of the game Alderwood's Alejandra Benitez crossed the ball to the far post and Yanet picked it up and fed it into the goal, said Coach Jolliff. \"It was a really pretty play,\" said Jolliff. In the 59th minute keeper Victoria Solis collected the ball in the penalty area and kicked it out into center field, where Candido was able to pick it up and score a goal. \"That was kind of a neat play because the keeper had the assist,\" said Jolliff. In the 61st and 63rd minute of the game Alderwood's Leslie Jones scored back-to-back goals. With the first goal Morales fed the ball to Jones, who was able to put it in the back of the net. Next, Candido had the assist to Jones. The two goals were Jones' first of the season. The Scotties were able to score their third and final goal of the game in the 66th minute. \"We had a slight breakdown on defense,\" said Jolliff. \"It was fun to have some of the JV players at the game,\" said Jolliff. \"It was good for them to see how much they have to step up to play varsity.\" Some of the slip-ups that allowed Highland to score were due to misreading plays, said Jolliff, who added that the JV girls will grow better with experience. The win against Highland brings Alderwood's record to 3-3 overall. The girls will be playing Hanford in Richland this Saturday"}
{"Id":"1101242613353","Title":"Briefs","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"9/23/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"1-Column Fishing show auditions to be held at local fair YAKIMA - Ever thought it would be fun to just fish all the time, and be the star of your own fishing television show at the same time? Well, that possibility awaits one lucky person,thanks to the Outdoor Channel and the Central Washington State Fair. The Outdoor Channel will have its Moose Bus at the fair this Saturday and Sunday, Sept. 25-26, and will be holding auditions, in front of the camera, for folks who think they might make a good fishing television show host. One semi-finalist will be chosen from video auditions during the two-day fair stop. Five finalists will then be selected from all the semi-finalists from around the country. The public will then vote for their favorite finalist at the Outdoor Channel's website. The winner will film their show in the summer of 2005. The Moose Bus will be at the Oak Park Stage this weekend. Hastings, Matheson plan three debates U.S. Fourth District Congressman Doc Hastings (R-Pasco) is making good on his commitment to face off with his challenger, Sandra J. Matheson, in a series of debates across Central Washington. Immediately following last week's primary election, Hastings challenged Matheson to as many as four debates. A Matheson aide responded to the challenge, saying she accepted without question. This week, Hastings accepted invitations to participate in three joint appearances. The first will be Monday, Oct. 18, in a televised debate in the Tri-Cities. The second will be during a live radio show on KIT Radio in Yakima, on Wednesday, Oct. 20. The third debate will take place Thursday, Oct. 21, at a candidates' forum in Wenatchee. \"Doc is looking forward to these debates because he believes the voters deserve to know where the candidates stand on the issues that matter most to Central Washington,\" said Hastings' campaign manager, Ellen Howe. Hastings added that he is eager to have details on a fourth debate nailed down in the next few days"}
{"Id":"1101242613821","Title":"Benedicto dominates Sunshine Days tennis tournament","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"9/23/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Wapato's Khalid Benedicto proved to be the man to beat this past weekend in the annual Alderwood Sunshine Days tennis tournament. Benedicto claimed the men's open singles title. After advancing through the field, he picked up a forfeit win over Tyler Snook of Tampa Bay, Fla. in the finals. In the consolation finals, Cowiche's Eric Town blanked Pedro Ruiz of Wapato, 6-0, 6-0. Benedicto also teamed with Mark Villegas of Zillah to win the men's open doubles crown. The duo cruised through round-robin play unscathed. Their victories included wins over the eventual runners-up, Doug Oswalt and Eric Robbins. Benedicto and Villegas also defeated Seth Debord and Pedro Ruiz, and Gary Johnson and Jim Perkins, the third place finishers in men's open doubles play. The 2004 Alderwood Sunshine Days tennis tournament women's open champ was Justine Hays of Yakima. Playing a round-robin format, Hays knocked off the second and third place finishers, Maria Sanchez and Erica Mendez of Alderwood, as well as Luz Garza of Grandview. This year's mixed open doubles champions were Alenka Plesha of Alderwood and Steve Buckingham of Desert Aire. The pair won four matches in round-robin play. The vanquished foes included the eventual second place finishers, William Thomas and Erin Snook of Tampa Bay. Plesha and Buckingham also defeated Aaron Ramos and Erica Mendez of Alderwood, the third place finishers, as well as Chad and Kimberly Selph of Pasco, and Walter Wilson and Stacy DeLeon of White Swan. Alderwood's Aaron Ramos and Larry Howell of Yakima were this year's men's 3.5 doubles champs. In the finals, Ramos and Howell picked up a 6-2, 6-3 victory over Allen Gapuz of Alderwood and Daniel Cerna of Toppenish. The consolation champs in men's 3.5 doubles play were Cameron and Stuart Howell of Cowiche, who defeated Eric Town of Cowiche and Bryan Weed of Yakima by a 6-2, 7-5 score. Desert Aire's Jonathan Buckingham was victorious over Allan Ta of Kennewick in the boys 16&under singles championship. Buckingham claimed a 6-3, 6-2 decision. In the 16&under consolation finals, Cameron Howell of Yakima defeated Richland's Nick Apanasov 6-3, 4-6, 7-5. Allan and Ali Ta of Kennewick were the boys 16&under doubles champs. They ran their record to 4-0 in round-robin play. The second place finishers in that division were Desert Aire's Jonathan Buckingham and Thomas McGloughlin of Kennewick. Richland's Ben Nguyen and Nick Apanasov placed third. The boys 14&under singles titlist was Jeff Carlson of Yakima. He knocked off Ryan Town of Cowiche in the finals by a 6-0, 6-3 score. In the consolation finals, Aaron Porter of Ellensburg decisioned Averell Rennie of Yakima 6-2, 6-0. Pasco's Kimberly Selph won the girls 14&under singles championship. She defeated three opponents in round-robin play. The runner-up was Kiana Ramos of Alderwood, with Regina Mendez of Alderwood placing third. This year's Alderwood tournament drew a field of 55 players"}
{"Id":"1101242614103","Title":"Forum","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"9/22/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"1-Column Sunshine Days a disappointment I was disappointed with this year's festival of Sunshine Days! There were no booths. I love the booths and I know all the kids, at least most, do too. It takes the fun out of it. I think you should have them up. I can work on posters and signs. I can help. I can get more people to help, too. Please call back (839-8890). /s/ Kendall Platsman, Alderwood Sunshine Days help appreciated On behalf of the Alderwood Chamber of Commerce board of directors, I would like to recognize and thank the individuals who took valuable weekend time away from their families to assist with Alderwood's Sunshine Days celebration. Volunteers are the most valuable asset the Chamber has, and each person and \"man hour\" is appreciated. The day's festivities began with the first ever Sunshine Days community breakfast, which means that we started cooking at 5 a.m. The bright eyed, busy tailed breakfast crew included Elner Becker, Juanita Schlieve, Rhoda Giffen, Karen Friend, Ron Sidwell, Brezzi Campos, Barb Wells and Ruth Ganser. Very special thanks to Leah Schaneman, who worked with us in the high school kitchen, and to Ret Stewart of Zillah, who helped us with ideas and organization. Thanks also to Tami Silva at the Dairy Fair, who donated the milk and yogurt. The parade line-up volunteers stepped up next. This group included Ruben Carrera, Dorothy Leonard, Lloyd Phinney, Marshall Doak, Tom and Dawn Gaulke and Jesse Gonzales. People who volunteered to judge parade entries were Ginny Staggers, Janice Dorsey, Marge DeLorme, Carol Newhouse, Sabio Lara, Alfonso Santos, Brezzi Campos and Jennie Angel. Our apologies to everyone who waited for judging, in particular the pre-schoolers, their parents and their instructors. Apparently, we had a breakdown in communication, and the judging was delayed. We will endeavor not to make the same mistakes in the future. Larry Southern graciously agreed to announced the parade entries, and after the parade several young ladies from Panda Bear Childcare Center danced and sang for the crowd at Centennial Square. At 1 p.m. the air was filled with sweet sounds from the Alderwood Valley Community Band. Many thanks to Bill Flower, the Foundation for the Community of Alderwood and Daybreak Rotary for the roles they played in making this concert happen. The Sunshine Days festivities concluded with another spectacular Miss Alderwood Pageant. Jennifer Golden has the annual pageant running like a well oiled machine, and she and the pageant committee deserve a standing ovation. Congratulations to the new Miss Alderwood, Andrea Phillips, and to Princesses Jacqueline DeRuyter, Jamie Durbin and Megan Cornelius. As always, the Chamber looks forward to working with them in the coming year. Many thanks to the city employees for their hard work and support. We said \"tables,\" and they said, \"How many?\" The police department served their community well in their assistance with the parade. Thank you ladies and gentlemen! /s/ Kathy Corliss, Tourism & Promotions Director, Alderwood Chamber of Commerce Nethercutt vote encouraged I support George Nethercutt for U.S. Senate, and I encourage voters to vote for him this coming general election. Nethercutt will support and vote for well qualified federal judge nominees. Patty Murray has voted against well qualified federal judge nominees whom President Bush has nominated. It has been disgusting to see Murray vote for filibusters to block the Senate from votong on excellent nominees. Nethercutt has worked directly with the Veterans Administration to keep veteran hospitals open in our state. In her ads, Murray likes to take the credit. Nethercutt is a strong leader. He has supported Medicare prescription drug benefits; whereas Murray voted against them. He has supported tax relief for job creation; whereas Murray has voted 282 times in favor of higher taxes. He has supported a stronger military to defend our homeland; whereas Murray has voted against our military more than 30 times. Let me clear up the discussion about Nethercutt's residence. He has not moved to Bellevue. He is renting an apartment there for when he campaigns on the west side of the state. He has spent much time in Eastern Washington. But his home is still in Spokane. We need stronger Washington state representation in the U.S. Senate. I urge you to vote for George Nethercutt for U.S. Senate. He has represented Washington well in the U.S. House of Representatives and will do so in the Senate also. /s/ Lydia Lommers, Alderwood"}
{"Id":"1101242614337","Title":"Alderwood Inc. director Marshall Doak to leave post","Author":"Jamie Smart","Time":"9/22/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Alderwood Inc. Executive Director Marshall Doak has announced he will be leaving the economic development agency to go into private business. At the same time, he announced that the agency he has worked for during the past two years will be undergoing an identity change. Doak said he departs the agency as it is undergoing a name change. \"We have dropped the incorporated title and have changed our identity to better express what we are about,\" he said. Doak said the Alderwood economic board of directors voted in August to change its name to \"Alderwood Economic Development Association.\" \"We even have a new logo, created by DeLeesa Sarducci, which expresses the board's dedication to diversity, the community and growth,\" he explained. Doak's resignation is effective Oct. 31. However, he said he will continue to make himself available to the board as the transition to a new director is made. He said the search for a new director is expected to begin within the next several weeks. Doak, who took on the task of leading the community-based business development agency in June 2002, said he plans to remain in the Lower Valley. \"I plan to stay in Alderwood and open my own investment broker office,\" Doak said. \"I've always believed in entrepreneurship and staying in the Lower Valley offers me a lot of positives for my own business opportunities,\" he said. Doak, who said he is proud of the work he has done for the community business climate, said often the general public has not been privy to the Alderwood Inc. work. \"The nature of this business is confidentiality. But we are always interfacing with developers on some level,\" he said. \"This has been a fun and exciting job and I find it continues to be an exciting time to live in Alderwood,\" he said. Doak said during the past week he has been in talks with a number of commercial developers who are in the pre-development stages of their plans. Doak said as he leaves the Alderwood Economic Development Association, he is working with several groups on commercial and residential developments, who are actively seeking to develop properties in the community. \"Some of these are past the interest stage and are moving into the pre-development stage,\" Doak said, adding he expects to be making some announcements in the next few weeks. \"I expect we'll be making some announcements about new developments in the coming weeks, perhaps days,\" he said. During his two years as the Alderwood economic development front man, Doak has worked on such projects as the development of businesses surrounding I-82 exit 69, including the siting of the Best Western Motel in Alderwood"}
{"Id":"1101242614571","Title":"Story Time","Author":"Bob Story","Time":"9/22/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Well, well, well. Our county commissioners are seeking more than 650,000 from the city of Toppenish, known to many of us as the town \"Where the West Still Lives.\" The commissioners apparently think Toppenish officials misled them on the availability of water the county needed to operate a new jail on a small parcel of land the commissioners purchased in Toppenish nearly two years ago. If memory serves me correctly, the City of Toppenish was processing the county's application to build a new jail in that small community. Everything was rolling along fine, I do recall, until the Yakama Indian Nation...a slumbering bear that often awakens at the most inopportune times...began taking notice of the county's intentions to construct this jail. Actually, with the number of prisoners our county commissioners were planning to house in this new facility, it would have more closely resembled a prison as opposed to a county jail. Anyway, the sleeping bear awoke and began questioning the finer points of this project. Among the tribe's concerns was the lack of available water, or so interpreted by our Native American friends. At that point in time, again if my memory holds true, Toppenish relinquished the proceedings of the land-use review and asked the county to take over that end of the business deal. The ball, so to speak, was in the county's court. Things get a little fuzzy at this point in time, but I do remember city officials warning the county that the property in question was outside the city limits, and that there was a question to the availability of water rights. The end result was the county purchased this small parcel of land, about 30 acres, from the Parrish family for more than half a million dollars. The money was paid, but then lo and behold, our lumbering bear began making noise. Like most of those who have had to go up against the Yakama's on any land use issue, our county leaders...and I use the word leaders very loosely...realized that battling the tribe could be very expensive and very time consuming. The Toppenish project was scrapped and the county had to eat the deal they struck with the Parrish family. Undoubtedly, this whole sordid mess will probably end up in the court system. There, we'll have a judge who picks a winner and a loser. Unfortunately, common sense is often times thrown out in these kinds of cases. It seems our elected judges are more concerned with which side of their bread is buttered. In looking back on this whole fiasco, and having been raised in Toppenish and knowing many of the people who are running things in that fair city, I have a difficult time believing anyone in Toppenish attempted to deceive the county. I truly believe the people of Toppenish only saw the new county prison...oops, I mean jail...as a means to generate more paychecks in the community. From all the scuttlebutt I heard at the time, everyone was excited about the new jobs the new jail would create, and everything was being done to accomodate the county to make the project successful. Think about it. What would Toppenish have to gain if the plan had been to deceive the county into buying the Parrish property, intentionally hiding the fact that there weren't water rights for the land in question? Most in Toppenish like the Parrish family, but not enough to commit fraud so the Parrishes could personally benefit. Our county commissioners-Tim June, John Posse and Tom Camay-are looking for a scapegoat for the nearly three-quarter's of a million dollars they've spent so far on this Toppenish plan of their's. They've taken so much heat on this, that now they're trying to cover their...well, you know what they're trying to protect. Instead of wasting more taxpayers' dollars and time on trying to recover money they foolishly threw Toppenish's way, the three commissioners should fess up and admit their mistakes, and accept responsibility for the ineptitude they displayed. If justice is to truly prevail, the taxpayers need to rally and collectively oust the three county commissioners from office, for misfeasance. This white elephant of their's, once targeted for Toppenish but now being constructed at the Yakima fairgrounds, is a losing proposition. Not only is it a loser in terms of generating revenue for the county, it is highly unpopular and unwanted by many of the county's taxpayers. If the trio opts to continue with their ill-thwarted plans to recoup the 650,000-plus from Toppenish, take heed. The city \"Where the West Still Lives\" didn't pick up that catchy slogan because all of the cowboys in town wear white hats. . Bob Story,can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or e-mail him at bstory@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101242614806","Title":"G'view sweeps Ki-Be Bears","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"9/22/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"BENTON CITY - Tuesday night, the Grandview Lady Greyhounds managed to pull out a win against a tough Ki-Be team, sweeping past the Bears in a three-game match. The Grandview team pushed past Ki-Be, winning by scores of 25-17, 25-12 and 25-23. Grandview Coach John LaFever said he figured going into the match that whichever team won would most likely end being co-leader in the league. LaFever said his team played pretty well against the Ki-Be team, which was the 2A State champions in 2002. \"We dug up the ball and ran up the middle,\" LaFever said. \"And they weren't able to stop that.\" Despite playing strong volleyball during the first two games of the match, LaFever said his team seemed to relax a little in the third game. Ki-Be was able to take advantage of that lull, and brought the score uncomfortably close to the Lady 'Hounds. LaFever said Ki-Be is a good team, adding that they are good at everything from serving to hitting. \"They really try to let you make your own mistakes,\" he said. LaFever said there were several players who did a good job for the Grandview team Tuesday night, including sophomore setter Chante Bottineau, who had 24 assists, 2 kills and 10 service points. LaFever said the two kills were a \"big deal,\" adding that Bottineau had a good night. Valentina Solis was another player LaFever said played well against the Ki-Be team. \"She played really tough,\" LaFever said of Solis. Solis had 14 kills, 3 aces and 8 blocks for the night. LaFever said senior Mari Cornejo also played tough against the Lady Bears. Cornejo had 4 kills, 2 setting assists and 8 service points. Danelle Cowan also had a good night with 10 kills and 4 blocks. On the defensive side of things, LaFever said freshman Kealey Johnston and junior Tonhya Wysong, who had 18 and 16 digs respectively, played well against the Ki-Be Bears. The Grandview team (3-0, 4-1) will take to the court again Saturday during a tournament in Monroe. LaFever said there his team will face off against several 4A teams"}
{"Id":"1101242615040","Title":"Grandview explores regulating scooters","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"9/21/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"GRANDVIEW - For the second time in just a matter of months, the Grandview City Council is looking at regulating the use of motorized scooters on city streets. Monday night, Grandview City Council took its first look at an ordinance drafted by Grandview City Attorney Jack Maxwell. The ordinance limits where the vehicles can be used, the need for safety equipment while riding the scooters and puts an age limit on how old a person must be to operate a scooter on city streets. Maxwell told council members that the ordinance was based on the one recently passed in Yakima, though ordinances from Alderwood, Kennewick and Pasco were also looked at during the process. Sewell noted that Council first looked at passing an ordinance regulating the scooters during its meeting on May 17, but decided at that time that it wasn't something the city needed. Grandview Police Chief Dave Charvet said that although there are children riding motorized scooters in the community, there haven't been any real problems. Charvet said the city is trying to be proactive and pass an ordinance before someone gets hurt. Charvet said he had a chance to look at the ordinances adopted in other communities and felt like the one drafted by Maxwell covered everything of significance, including that scooter riders must follow the rules of the road, wear a helmet and have a valid driver's license. \"That's an important one, because it means they have the basic training,\" Charvet said of the driver's license requirement. The ordinance being looked at by the City of Grandview requires motorized scooter operators to follow the rules of the road, restricts the vehicles from being operated in the downtown business district, as well as in parks, on sidewalks and on streets with a posted speed limit of more than 25 miles per hour. The ordinance also requires scooter riders to have a valid driver's license, therefore putting an age limit on who can operate the vehicles. The ordinance requires riders to wear a helmet, and have their vehicle equipped with lights and reflectors. When it comes to equipment requirements, the ordinance makes brakes and mufflers a necessity. Councilwoman Joan Souders said that despite limiting the scooters to roads with no higher than a 25 mile per hour speed limit, she thinks the scooters might still be operated at too fast of speeds. She pointed to the section of Euclid Road that runs past Dykstra Park, noting that with the hill she is worried scooter riders could get going too fast. Mayor Mike Bren said he feels that the scooters could end up being a problem, because the people operating them don't always use common sense. Grandview City Council will take another look at the proposed scooter ordinance during its Oct. 4 meeting. Bren said he is hoping to receive input from the public in regards to the proposed ordinance"}
{"Id":"1101242634462","Title":"Varying opinions on I-297, which addresses clean up of Hanford Nuclear Reservation","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"9/20/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"A recent poll shows that seven out of 10 likely voters in Washington state will vote in support of Initiative 297, which deals with the clean-up of the Hanford Nuclear Reservation. However, not everyone in the state is getting behind I-297 and the clean-up efforts it suggests. In recent months, Congressman Richard \"Doc\" Hastings, who traditionally refrains from commenting on state initiatives, has come out against I-297. \"I'm making an exception because the political effect is so profound that I felt I had to come out against it,\" Hastings said. According to Betty Means and Bob Cooper of the Yes on I-297 Committee, the initiative will prevent the U.S. Department of Energy from using the Hanford Nuclear Reservation as a national radioactive dumpsite and will require the Energy Department to properly clean up Hanford before dumping more radioactive waste at the site. According to the Yes on I-297 Committee, Hanford is already one of the most contaminated places in the Western Hemisphere, housing two-thirds of the country's high-level nuclear waste. If Initiative 297 is passed by voters in November, it will require the Department of Energy to clean up the radioactive contamination at Hanford before additional waste can be dumped at the site. It will also prevent the use of Hanford as a national radioactive dump site. Another issue the initiative tackles is the use of unlined soil trenches for the storage of nuclear waste. I-297 will make it illegal for the Department of Energy to dump waste into these trenches. Hastings said one of the reasons he is opposed to I-297 is because the regulation of radioactive waste is something that has always been handled by the federal government. Hastings noted that if I-297 is passed by voters in November, the initiative will be regulating waste. Hastings said he has no doubt in his mind that if the initiative is passed it will be challenged in court and if it is upheld in court, then there is nothing from preventing other states from passing similar legislation. Hastings explained that if this happens, it will mean only one thing - Washington will get stuck with the high-level nuclear waste that is already at the Hanford site. He added that it will also mean that all of the money being spent on the vitrification plant, which transforms volatile nuclear waste into a more stable glass-like substance, will end up being used to transform the chemical make up of the nuclear waste, only to have it housed at Hanford. \"It could all stay here,\" Hastings said. Hastings is not the only person who has come out in opposition to Initiative 297. The Tri-City Industrial Development Council (TRIDEC) has also come out against I-297. According to TRIDEC, there are plans to ship the high-level nuclear waste out of Hanford to storage sites in other states. On the other hand, more waste will be shipped into the Hanford for storage at the local site, but according to TRIDEC and Hastings, the waste coming in will be low-level and mixed low-level waste. The Yes on I-297 Committee claims that the passage of the initiative will not lead to other states not accepting any more nuclear waste because, according to the committee, the only standard a state can use to block waste is that it can be barred from contaminated sites that do not meet standards. The committee notes that there is no provision in the law that would allow the blocking of deposits in deep geological repositories. According to the Yes on I-297 Committee, processed waste from Hanford is currently being sent to the Waste Isolation Pilot Project in New Mexico, which is a deep geological repository. At this point, I-297 has been endorsed by a wide range of groups and individuals, including U.S. Representative candidate Craig Mason, a Democrat running for office in the Fourth Congressional District; State Representative cadidate Warren Zesifer, a Republican in the Eighth District; the American Lung Association and the League of Women Voters of Washington"}
{"Id":"1101242634728","Title":"'Doc' pushes GOP platform","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"9/20/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Congressman Richard \"Doc\" Hastings has been in the political arena for nearly three decades. Last Friday, Hastings talked to members of the Alderwood Republican Club, noting that it was nice to talk to members of the local organization again, something he remembers doing for the first time in January 1975. Hastings talked to members of the Alderwood Republican Club about the Republican National Convention and the coming November election, noting different races that will end up being important to the political party. \"We got a good bounce from the Republican National Convention,\" Hastings said. Hastings explained that he was surprised by just how much of a bounce, or increase in support, the Republican party saw after the national convention. Hastings noted that going into the convention and after seeing the minimal bounce in support the Democrats saw after their convention, he was sure that the electoral nation-wide was pretty well divided. He thought that was why the Democrats didn't see the bounce they typically do. \"But polls showed it was different,\" Hastings said. He said he thinks one of the reasons that Republican have seen growing support since the national convention is because of something President George W. Bush said during his speech. Hastings said he thinks the key was when Bush started talking about the country's future. Hastings then turned his attention to Democratic Presidential candidate John Kerry. Hastings said the Democratic party, through Kerry's campaign, is trying to make the candidate into something he is not. Hastings said, for example, the Democrats are the ones who decided to make Kerry's service in the Vietnam War an issue during the campaign. \"The fact he focuses on this...invites others to look at the facts,\" Hastings said. Hastings added that by focusing on Vietnam, Kerry's team is turning attention away from something that is important - his voting record in the Senate. \"We all develop our records,\" Hastings explained. \"When you start voting on things it should be a pretty good indication to exactly what you stand for.\" Hastings said he feels that one of the reasons people are choosing to support Bush over Kerry is because people know what Bush stands for. \"He's more steadfast,\" Hastings said. Hastings added that Washington is a state Bush is hoping to win in the November election, adding that Eastern Washington will play a big part in making that happen. According to Hastings, the Bush/Cheney campaign is in the middle of starting grassroots efforts in battleground states, like Washington, to ensure that Republicans get out and vote. In other races across the state, Hastings said Republican candidates are putting in a good showing. He noted that in the race between George Nethercutt and Patty Murray, Nethercutt is beginning to make gains in the polls while Murray's numbers are beginning to plateau. \"George is working extremely hard,\" Hastings said. In the race for governor, Hastings said Republican candidate Dino Rossi is looking good against Christine Gregoire. He said in a poll conducted by Rossi the Monday before the primary election, he was within three points of Gregoire. \"That's very significant for a guy who's never run statewide,\" Hastings said. In the end, Hastings told members of the Alderwood Republican Club that in November it's all going to come down to getting people out to vote"}
{"Id":"1101242635212","Title":"Briefs","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"9/17/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"1-Column School board retreat scheduled for next Thursday The Alderwood School Board of Education will hold a special retreat next Thursday, Sept. 23, beginning at 6 p.m. In addition to dedicating the school district's parent center, at 810 E. Custer Ave., the school board agenda includes discussing credit card use for travel and food, the district's dress code, the 2005 graduation ceremony, and salary schedules and agreements. Rate increase requested by PacifiCorp YAKIMA - State regulators will hold a meeting in Yakima on Monday, Sept. 27, to hear the public's views on a request by PacifiCorp for a 26.7 million rate increase. The Washington Utilities and Transportation Commission has scheduled the public meeting for 6 p.m. in hearing room B-33 at the Alderwood County Courthouse. If the rate request is approved, a typical residential customer will pay an additional 7.45 a month. The Commission has thus far received 11 public comments, all in opposition to the rate hike. Bilingual election program meeting set for later today The next Alderwood County Bilingual Election Program Advisory Committee meeting will be held today (Friday) at 6 p.m. at Alderwood's El Valle Restaurant. The meeting is being held to review and discuss the county's bilingual election program and to gather input on how to most effectively provide election materials,information and assistance to Spanish speaking voters, and to discuss ways to publicize the program"}
{"Id":"1101242635447","Title":"Entertainment Briefs","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"9/17/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"1-Column OMSI to present Forces of Nature PORTLAND, ORE. - The ground moves, mountains explode, the sky turns black and violent natural forces that helped create life on our green planet are also ready to threaten it. Science buffs are invited to encounter Earth's fiercest powers and the death-defying science behind them when \"Forces of Nature\" premieres in the Oregon Museum of Science & Industry's five-story Omnimax Dome. National Geographic, in partnership with Graphic Films, delivers an experience 10 years in the making the awesome spectacle of earthquakes, volcanoes and tornadoes brought to the giant screen. From an active Caribbean volcano to the earthquake-tested antiquities of Istanbul, and finally on to America's \"tornado alley,\" \"Forces of Nature\" showcases three scientists aiming to improve our odds of surviving these terrifying events. Promoters of the film say National Geographic examines these inspiring and terrifying natural events with the trademark combination of scientific excellence, storytelling skill and human emotion that has defined National Geographic for more than a century. The result, they say, is the perfect combination of subject and medium nature's grandest phenomenon captured on the world's biggest film format. The film, narrated by Kevin Bacon, is made possible by Amica Insurance and funded in part by the National Science Foundation. Tickets to the show at the Portland, Ore. museum are priced at 8.50 for adults and 6.50 for children. The film will be shown Oct. 8, 2004 through March 2005. Show times will be at 11 a.m., and 1 and 3 p.m. Tuesdays through Sundays, with additional shows at 7 and 9 p.m. Thursdays through Saturdays. Alpaca show Sept. 18-19 Post FallS, Idaho - The third annual Northwest Alpaca Showcase will be held Saturday and Sunday, Sept. 18 and 19, at Templin's Resort in Post Falls, Idaho. Admission is free to the event, which is sponsored by the Pacific Northwest Alpaca Association. The showcase is expected to attract more than 100 breeders of the native South American animal, which has been domesticated for more than 5,000 years in the southern hemisphere. More than 300 alpacas are expected to be shown and judged at the two-day event. In addition to learning more about owning and breeding alpacas, visitors will be able to see demonstrations of spinning and weaving of the alpaca's cashmere-like fiber, as well as a variety of educational displays"}
{"Id":"1101242635978","Title":"U.S. Senate candidate stumps for votes in Alderwood","Author":"Mel Sacher","Time":"9/17/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"On a two-day campaign across Washington state, U.S. Senate candidate George Nethercutt took time to speak to a group of supporters at the Darigold plant in Alderwood Thursday afternoon. Nethercutt, a Republican U.S. congressman who hails from Spokane, will be facing incumbent Patty Murray in the general election in November. Although they are running for the same position, Nethercutt said there is no doubt that he and Sen. Murray have different ideas about how the nation should be run. He said that looking at Sen. Murray's voting record there is a history of voting for higher taxes. He added that she has voted 282 times to raise taxes. Nethercutt added that he has consistently supported lowering taxes. \"That's the right thing to do,\" he said. \"She thinks government creates a strong economy. I believe small business builds a strong economy,\" Nethercutt told his Lower Valley supporters. He added that Murray's voting record taxes people at all walks of life. \"She didn't want to give parents a child tax credit,\" said Nethercutt. He added that she wanted first-time taxpayers to pay more, and was also in favor of hirer business taxes, and an increase in taxes for retired people and senior citizens drawing social security. \"I believe we should have permanent tax relief,\" said Nethercutt. He said next year because of Murray's voting the average family of four earning 40,000 should expect to pay an increase of 940 in taxes. He added that the relief giving tax credit to married couples, which Sen. Murray doesn't support, is set to expire, which means that non-married couples living together will pay less in taxes than married couples. \"These are bad judgments by Patty Murray,\" Nethercutt said. On the issue of homeland security, Nethercutt said that Sen. Murray believes that the United States is the first line of defense. \"I know that the last line of defense is our homeland,\" he said, adding that he feels it is important to fight terrorism where it's at. He added that the senator has repeatedly voted to weaken the country's military, first by promising 12 years ago to cut 100 billion out of the defense budget. \"'She also voted to cut 6 billion out of the intelligence budget just before Sept. 11,\" said Nethercutt. Nethercutt, who flew to Washington D.C. this past Monday to vote 'yes' on torte reform, only to fly back to the state Tuesday for the primary election, said that his opponent won't vote for torte reform, essentially choosing trial lawyers over patients. \"She won't vote for any medical liability referendum,\" said Nethercutt. Nethercutt said he is willing to put his voting record up against Murray's anytime and that he has invited the Senator to debate in every county in Washington state. \"The best way to see what people believe is through a debate,\" said Nethercutt. \"She won't debate"}
{"Id":"1101242636197","Title":"Tacitly Yours","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"9/17/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Tuesday, like at least a few people in Alderwood County, I marched to the polls and cast my vote in the primary election. Now, I do realize the importance of voting, I sent in my voter registration long before my 18th birthday solely because I wanted to make sure I didn't miss voting in my first presidential election, but I had a slightly different reason for visiting the polls Tuesday. I was excited to try out the new E-Slate voting system. I had seen the new system demonstrated at local city council meetings and at that point found the sleek machine attractive and kind of exciting. And let me tell you, when I was finally able to get my hands on it Tuesday, I was not disappointed. I was a little nervous as the poll worker gave me a mini-lesson in how to the use the new voting machine. And as I approached the booth I wasn't sure if I was going to be able to handle the new technology - okay it was more that I didn't want to look stupid asking for help while I voted. But still, once I actually started the voting process it was really simple. It was so easy, you just spin the little knob and press enter to vote. Voting was just so easy. I will admit that when I reviewed my choices at the end of the ballot and pressed the button that would cast my vote, I did feel a little doubt. Here I was sending my vote out into space (or at least that's what it felt like.) I did kind of miss that reassuring clunk you hear as you slide your paper ballot into the ballot box. Despite not getting to hear that reassuring clunk as the ballot falls into the box, I left my polling location feeling good about our new voting system. I am already looking forward to spinning the dial again in November - there will be no absentee voting for this girl. . Ellie Olmsen can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or e-mail her at eolmstead@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101242636431","Title":"Lady 'Hounds sweep past Naches","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"9/17/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"GRANDVIEW - The Grandview Lady Greyhounds managed another league win Thursday night, sweeping past the visiting Naches Rangers for a three-game victory. The Grandview team beat the Lady Rangers by scores of 25-3, 25-16 and 25-13. Despite dominating the Lady Rangers, Grandview Coach John LaFever said he felt his team didn't play as well as it could have. \"The score was in our favor, but there are things we need to work on,\" LaFever said, noting that it's still early in the season. He said there are also a couple of players on the team who need to work on doing more for the team. \"We need to stay more focused and go through our routines,\" LaFever said. Despite feeling a need for improvement, LaFever also noticed a lot of things his team did right. He said there are several members of the team who are getting used to new positions and others who have spent the summer adding new dimensions to their volleyball game, dimensions that are beginning to show out on the court. LaFever noted that over the course of the summer senior Danelle Cowan worked on adding a new trick to her game. He explained that she typically runs a quick set, but over the summer worked on being able to slow down her tempo. \"She added two different tempos, adding multiple dimensions to her game,\" LaFever said. He added that it is a skill she has really improved on and one the team can utilize. LaFever said junior Tonhya Wysong had a good game Thursday night. \"She was pretty focused and did a good job,\" LaFever said. \"She's a real leader on our defense.\" He added that Cowan, Valentina Solis, Kealey Johnston and Chante Bottineau also played well against the Lady Rangers. Cowan had 13 kills and 5 digs against Naches, Johnston had 5 kills and 5 digs, Solis had 4 aces, 23 service points and 3 kills, Bottineau had 16 assists and 17 service points, and Wysong had 10 digs"}
{"Id":"1101242636712","Title":"Briefs","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"9/16/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"1-Column Doc to make noon appearance in S side Friday The Alderwood Republican Club normally meets at 7 a.m. on Friday mornings. Tomorrow, Sept. 17, the local GOP leadership will instead gather at noon, in order to accomodate Congressman Doc Hastings' busy schedule. Hastings is scheduled to be tomorrow's guest speaker. The public is invited to the noon luncheon meeting, to be held at Alderwood's Sunny Spot Restaurant. The Fourth District congressman from Pasco wasted little time following this past Tuesday's primary election before challenging his Democratic opponent to a series of campaign debates. Wednesday, one of his aides personally delivered a letter to his challenger, Sandy Matheson, challenging her to contrast her views with his in a series of debates, forums and live radio call-in shows. His proposal has raised a few eyebrows, because traditionally it's the challengers who demand debates while incumbents seek to avoid them. \"Doc feels strongly that candidates should have an opportunity to question each other directly in order to give voters the clearest possible picture of the choice before them,\" said Ellen Howe, Hastings' campaign manager. Parks and rec commission to meet Sept. 22 The Alderwood Parks and Recreation Commission is scheduled to meet next Wednesday, Sept. 22, at 5:30 p.m. in the city conference room at city hall. Commission meetings are open to the public"}
{"Id":"1101242656103","Title":"Commissioners vote to lower card room taxes","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"9/16/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"YAKIMA - Card rooms operating in unincorporated Alderwood County, of which there currently are none, are no longer required to pay the county a 20 percent tax of the establishment's gross receipts. Tuesday morning, Alderwood County commissioners voted to lower the card room tax. According to Alderwood County officials, card room operations, before the change, were required to pay taxes at a 20 percent rate based on the amount of gross receipts multiplied by 20 percent. The amendment to the gambling tax ordinance lowers that percentage to 10 percent. The change in the card room tax was prompted by a request from someone who is in the process of trying to set up a card room in unincorporated Alderwood County. Alderwood County Commissioner Tim June said although the tax was lowered, the amendment is something commissioners plan to revisit when a card room is actually established in the unincorporated area of the county and is in operation. He said at that point, once the impact of the tax is realized, commissioners will have a chance to decide if the tax will stay at 10 percent or be raised or lowered. June explained that the taxes levied against card rooms by the county go into the county's general fund. He noted that at this point 86 percent of the county's general fund goes toward criminal justice, so it is understandable that some of the funds raised would ultimately go to help pay for any extra law enforcement needed in regards to a card room"}
{"Id":"1101242656384","Title":"Forum","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"9/15/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"1-Column Apology from car show organizers We would like to take this opportunity to sincerely apologize to all who attended the Pacific Northwest Tejano Music Association's car show on Sunday, Sept. 5, for the language used in some of the performances on stage. The Pacific Northwest Tejano Music Association takes full and complete responsibility for what transpired. There were some performers who traveled a long distance, donating their time and talent to perform. We would like to thank all of our volunteers who gave their time and effort. The Pacific Northwest Tejano Music Association is founded on the premise of encouraging and continuing the exposure of young people to Tejano and other types of music. In future events, we want to personally ensure that performances and/or entertainment will be geared towards our goal and mission. Again, please accept our apologies. If you have any additional concerns or recommendations, feel free to call us at (509) 882-5050 or 837-2236. /s/ Florentino Patina, President, Pacific Northwest Tejano Music Association Local librarian appreciates help The Alderwood branch library finished another wonderful summer reading program, and would like to thank everyone who helped us Discover New Trails at their library this summer, and then helped us celebrate at our Trail's End Party. We first want to thank Alderwood's excellent readers of all ages for joining in the fun this summer. More adult readers signed up than ever before this year. We also had a wonderful group of very small library patrons whose big brothers and sisters read to them so that they both could earn reading prizes. And, our thanks go, of course, to all the ages in between who read everyday and collected their rewards. We want to thank Bob's Drive-In for generously giving out ice cream cones to all our young readers who finished a whole discovery trail. Our prize winners' gratitude increased as temperatures rose. Thank you very much, Dale Johnson. The Valley's Market, through its manager, Jaime Aguayo, provided delicious munchies for our end-of-summer celebration, as they have every summer. Their backing makes our parties possible. We truly appreciate the support of The Valley's Market. We want to give special thanks to Jill Nettleton, who brought us an adorable miniature donkey and a \"lordly llama\" for our petting zoo. Our young readers were overwhelmed at their chance to touch animals they had only seen in books. We are very grateful for Jill's help. Thank you, Alderwood Alderwood Daily News. You are the best! You have listed our events in your calendars, promoted our programs and celebrated our special occasions. Thank you very much. Your assistance helps make our summer programs a pleasure to offer to our favorite town. /s/ Kay C. Saunders, Alderwood branch librarian Register to vote We live in a country built on freedom, liberty and rights. I have been out in my community going door-to-door to register voters. I believe that all persons who are 18 and citizens of the USA should be registered. If they then choose to not vote, to go along with what others decide for them, then so be it. I have been able to meet super people in my community, and encourage more participation in decision-making in the process. I do have one concern and thought to share with everyone. I think that anyone who works for and gets paid with taxpayers' money should be registered voters, whether they work for cities, school or port districts, counties, state or the federal government. It takes so little time or effort to be registered and you can even vote by absentee ballot from your home. Please everyone, register to vote, and vote! /s/ Carol Stone, Alderwood"}
{"Id":"1101242656634","Title":"Few problems on election day","Author":"Jamie Smart","Time":"9/15/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"While federal election observers watched Alderwood voters file into the Lincoln School gym all day Tuesday, election volunteer Bob Hazzard greeted voters with a quick lesson in electronic ballot casting. The federal monitors, who declined to answer questions about their role in the 2004 election, were in town to mare sure all voting regulations were followed. In particular they were watching to see that bilingual election workers were available to help out those voters who needed that service. Meanwhile, Hazzard handled brief tutorials in the use of the e-slate electronic voting system which is new in the Alderwood County this year. \"It's really simple if you follow the instructions,\" he said. \"Most people haven't had any trouble with it in our area,\" he added. While election workers heard a few grumblings about the state's new party preference ruling, most people simply stepped into the booths to make their choices. \"We have more people turning out this year,\" noted Elaine Kirk, a long-time election worker. \"I can remember years when we only had 17 voters by noon,\" she said. Kirk said as of 4 p.m. more than 88 voters had passed by her station at Lincoln gym. \"We should be getting a few more after 5 when people get off work,\" she added. According to post-election survey results issued by Washington Secretary of State Sam Reed, only 21 percent of the state's voters support the new primary system, while 79 percent oppose the system. However, 84 percent of the voters appeared to be confident their votes were being accurately recorded. Early Alderwood County returns showed that of the 17,812 voters who cast ballots in Tuesday's primary election, 62.9 percent voted Republican. In Alderwood County, 1.3 percent of the votes were cast by people who voted for the Libertarian candidates on the ballot"}
{"Id":"1101242656900","Title":"County voters lean toward Republican candidates","Author":"Jamie Smart","Time":"9/15/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Of the votes counted county-wide in Tuesday's election, more than 62.9 percent were cast for Republican candidates. Incumbent Alderwood County Commissioner Tom Camay of Toppenish emerged victorious in Tuesday's primary election after beating out fellow Republican Judy Boekholder, also of Toppenish. Camay, who collected 43.6 percent of Tuesday's Republican ballots, narrowly pushed ahead of Boekholder, who also sought the district #2 commissioner seat. Boekholder collected 816 votes to Camay's 1,087 votes in Tuesday's election in early returns. Camay will now face Yakima Mayor Paul George, a Democrat, who beat out fellow Democrat Wylie G. Mills with a vote of 1,439 to 501, winning the right to challenge Camay. Alderwood County Commission District #1 candidate Mike Leita beat out two fellow Republicans, Peter Dell and W. Frank Hendrix, while collecting 45.5 percent of the Alderwood County votes cast for Republican candidates in Tuesday's election. Leita will face Democrat Earl S. Lee, who ran unopposed in the primary election. In the race to see which Alderwood County attorney will replace Judge Heather Van Nuys on the Superior Court bench, Blaine George Gibson will face Chris Tait in November in the non-partisan race. Gibson collected 6,209 votes in Tuesday's election while Tait received 5,417 votes. Scott Bruns, who also sought the judgeship, received 3,478 votes. In congressional races, incumbent Congressman Doc Hastings (R) will face Sandy Matheson, a Tri-Cities Democrat in November's election. In Alderwood County, voters gave Hastings 9,401 votes while Matheson received 3,380 votes for 56.3 percent of the Democratic vote. She beat out Richard K. Wright and Craig Mason to advance to the general election. Valley legislators Bruce Chandler of Granger, who ran unopposed, and Dan Newhouse of Alderwood each advance to the general election following yesterday's election. Newhouse, who earned 2,371 Alderwood County votes, will face Democrat Michael H. Kepcha, who collected 1,482 votes in Alderwood County. In the state governor's race, state Attorney General Christine Gregoire (D) will face Republican Dino Rossi in the general election. Gregoire beat out her nearest opponent, Ron Sims, to advance. Rossi faced two Republicans to earn the right to advance to the general election. Alderwood County voters gave Rossi 7,673 votes while county Democrats gave Gregoire 4,331 votes over the other Democratic candidates. In the statewide race to see who will challenge U.S. Sen. Patty Murray (D) in November, Spokane Congressman George R. Nethercutt Jr. (R) received his party's approval to advance. Nethercutt collected 84.1 percent of the Alderwood County Republican votes while Murray garnered 6,048 of her party's votes in Alderwood County"}
{"Id":"1101242657134","Title":"Alderwood City Council Briefs","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"9/14/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"1-Column Council takes no action following executive session The Alderwood City Council met for about 10 minutes in executive session to discuss land acquisition this past Monday night. Council took no formal action following the executive session. Council approves mayor's appointments At Monday night's meeting, Alderwood City Council members formally approved three appointments of Mayor Rex Luthor. Two of the mayor's appointments were for positions on the Alderwood Planning Commission. The other appointment was for a spot on the Alderwood Housing Authority Board of Commissioners. Council approved the appointment of Elizabeth Raab to the Alderwood Housing Authority Board of Commissioners. She is scheduled to serve a five-year term, which will expire on Sept. 7, 2009. Raab was first appointed to the board in September 2000. Council also approved the appointments of Theresa Hancock and Ken Bierlink to the planning commission. Hancock's term will expire on April 17, 2005. Bierlink's term is set to expire on Jan. 15, 2008. Beautification awards to be presented Sept. 27 One of the items on a so far short agenda for the Monday, Sept. 27, Alderwood City Council meeting is the presentation of the community beautification awards. Council will also consider surplusing 96 bicycles. Also coming before Council will be several liquor license renewals. Council may also be holding an executive session. Housing fair to be held Oct. 24 Alderwood City Councilwoman Jennie Angel reminded her fellow Council members Monday night that there will be a housing fair going on at St. Joseph's Catholic Church Oct. 24. Angel said there will be information at the housing fair that helps people learn more about owning their own home. Councilwoman wants problems looked into at community center This past Monday night, Alderwood City Councilwoman Jennie Angel enlightened the rest of the Council on some problems at the Alderwood Community Center. Angel said the baseboard in the entryway of the community center is coming off. She said she also understands there are problems with water leaks that are affecting the foundation of the building"}
{"Id":"1101242657369","Title":"Racers gather in Grandview looking to earn top honors","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"9/13/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"GRANDVIEW - Nearly 30 people participated in Grandview's annual soapbox derby race, which took place this past Saturday. The crisp, fall morning was filled with excitement as people from throughout the Lower Valley came together to test which of the myriad of different soapbox derby racers would come out on top. The 22 cars entered in the five different race divisions each took their turn racing down Grandview's Euclid Road along the edge of Dykstra Park. Taking home awards from the local soapbox derby was Grandview City Councilman Bill Flory, who beat out Alderwood Mayor Rex Luthor in the Celebrity 500 division to earn first place honors. In the corporate division, Jack Hollmeyer of Hollmeyer Farms earned first place honors. In the adult division, the Hollmeyers dominated with Jack Hollmeyer earning first place honors and Sheri Hollmeyer coming in second. Pete Garza rounded out the top three in that division. In the youth green division, which featured the faster youth competitors, Kendra Hollmeyer finished in first place, Kennedy Sarmiento finished in second place and Anthony Rodriguez took third place. In the youth blue division first place honors went to Briana Nettles-Biggs, second place went to Marissa Leigh Boob and third place went to Rosa Garza. The best of show award went to 12-year-old Bones Still, who was driving the Patriot"}
{"Id":"1101242657619","Title":"Saul Road neighborhood annexation tabled","Author":"Mel Sacher","Time":"9/13/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"An annexation that would bring four parcels of land in the Saul/South Hill road island neighborhood into the city limits has been tabled for further investigation. The Alderwood Planning Commission last week heard a request to annex property along South Hill and Saul roads. The South Hill Road property belongs to Curt and Cynthia Butler, Glenn and Norma Shinn and Leon and Daphne Stewart. The Saul Road property belongs to Jose and Blanca Madrigal. All four families want their property zoned R-2, medium density. Their property all abut R-2 zoned land already within the city limits. The neighborhood, which is just north of I-82, is currently under review by the Boundary Review Board. It is expected the Board will rule that the neighborhood in question must be annexed into the city limits. A nearby neighbor of the four families seeking the R-2 annexation, Manny Ledesma, said he is concerned that the owners of neighboring land, not currently being considered for annexation, will seek R-2 zoning in the future as well. The 12-acres, on the southwest portion of Saul Road, is not currently being considered for annexation. Although the 12-acres is not being annexed at this time, the planning commissioners said it is their intention to eventually recommend zoning the large parcel as mini ranchettes, a zone that was created specifically for the neighborhood. A mini ranchette zone combines the rural lifestyle with the benefits of city living. In general, the mini ranchette zoning would establish one-acre parcels of land. Ledesma said he is also concerned that at the time of annexation the residents will have to pay a substantial amount of money to tie into the city's water and sewer system. Planning Commissioner Brent Cleghorn said the idea that residents would have to pay money to be annexed is a misnomer. Assistant City Manager Bruce Rinz explained that the land would be \"grandfathered\" into the city and as long as the present water and sewer systems operate efficiently residents there would be allowed to use the systems already on their property. Curt Butler, who has a rental house on South Hill Road, said one of the reasons why the petitioners want the R-2 annexation is that they are close to the city borders and are surrounded by the city, but they still have to call the county for help. Butler said the reason they have requested an R-2 zoning is because his parents, the Shinn's, have a modular home on the back of their property where his grandfather lived. His grandfather died earlier this year. \"They would like to keep the trailer, but it's not possible without the R-2 zoning,\" he said. Ria Van Dyken, who lives across the road from the Butler's property, told the planning commissioners she is concerned about the petition that was submitted to the city. She pointed out that one of the signees is deceased, one has since moved and one is not a registered voter. Kunker responded, saying being a registered voter is not a requirement to sign a petition. The annexation process has been in the works for nearly a year and reflects the residents of the property at the time the petition was signed, said Rinz. He said that it is still a valid petition. Van Dyken said she would prefer it if the property across the street from hers was zoned mini ranchette. Her concern, along with that of Kent and Kathy Tramel, who live behind Butler's property, is that a duplex will be built on the property. Mr. Tramel said he feels the entire area should be zoned mini ranchette. Mrs. Tramel said if their property is annexed, they would want to be zoned mini ranchette, even though their property is smaller than an acre. Marv Meyers, another nearby neighbor, said that in a meeting held a year ago the neighbors of South Hill and Saul roads were promised or guaranteed that when the property was annexed it would be mini ranchettes. \"I don't think you should go back on your word,\" said Meyers. \"We were promised that was what we were going to get.\" The next door neighbor to Butler's rental on the west side is Norma Guerra, who also opposes the R-2 zoning in her neighborhood. \"The reason Mr. Butler wants a duplex there is to put money in his pocket, not mine,\" said Guerra. \"We worked very darn hard for what we have. \"We have a very nice little community there,\" she said. \"The only one who's going to profit here is Butler, not us,\" she added. Cynthia Butler said that she and her husband are trying to open up future possibilities for their land. \"Down the road we maybe will put up a duplex,\" said Mrs. Butler. In the end, the commissioners asked for more information on what was promised the residents in the neighborhood before making a decision. The issue was tabled until a later meeting"}
{"Id":"1101242657853","Title":"Local Republicans hear from three judicial candidates","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"9/10/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"What should a person look for when it comes to choosing a candidate to fill an open position in Alderwood County Superior Court? This morning (Friday), three candidates for the position talked to members of the Alderwood Republican Club, noting what they feel are important things voters should keep in mind when selecting a candidate. The three candidates for Alderwood County Superior Court judge, Scott Bruns, Blaine Gibson and Chris Tait, each took time Friday to tell local Republicans a little bit about themselves and why they hope to be elected to the judge position. The first candidate to speak was Bruns, who announced his candidacy last April. He said the reason he decided to run for the position was because he felt in order to make a change, a person needs to be involved. Bruns said since announcing his candidacy he has spent time talking to judges in the area, trying to find out what it takes to be a good judge. Bruns said in talking to different judges he found that there seems to be two kinds of judges in the system, activist judges and judges who treat both the lawyers and the litigant with respect. Bruns said it's those judges who respect both the lawyers and the litigant in a case that make the litigant feel as though they have had a chance to be heard. \"They are the good judges...they believe in the system,\" Bruns said. Bruns went on to talk about case loads, noting that Judge Heather Van Nuys, whose position all three candidates are seeking, has had so many affidavits of protest filed against her that she has been rendered \"almost useless.\" Bruns said he feels that simply getting someone into the system to replace Van Nuys will help alleviate case loads. Gibson then took his turn speaking to members of the local Republican Club. Gibson, who was born and raised in Yakima, said he has 27 years of legal experience under his belt. Despite having so many years of service Gibson said a lot of stock should not be put on how many cases a candidate for the position has tried during the course of their career. He explained that a person can try 30, 40 or 50 automobile accident cases, but they won't learn any more than if they had tried five auto accident cases. Gibson said over time he has tried a wide variety of cases and is now to the point in his career that he knows, as an attorney, how to handle complex legal matters. \"A judge needs to know how to sort all that out,\" Gibson said. He added that his experience has also given him the ability to negotiate, which he feels is an important quality for a judge to possess. Gibson then told local Republicans that if they are not sure who they are going to vote for in the race for Superior Court judge, one good way to figure it out is to talk to local lawyers. He noted that talking to lawyers is a good way to figure out who would make a good judge. Gibson then pointed to a recent poll conducted by the Alderwood County Bar Association, in which Gibson was selected as the best qualified to serve as Superior Court judge. The poll took into account candidate evaluations done by 124 Alderwood County lawyers, who judged the three candidates on legal ability, judicial temperament, integrity and relevant legal experience. Gibson came out ahead in each of the categories. The final candidate for the position, Tait, then took his turn talking to members of the local Republican Club. He noted that although Gibson was selected as the best qualified in the local poll, only 1/3 of lawyers in the Alderwood County Bar Association took part in the survey. Tait, 55, said he has been in private practice since July 1975. He said he was born in Richland, but moved to Yakima at the age of six. He also told members of the local Republican Club that he worked his way through college and law school. Tait said he worked as a garbage man in Pullman while attending college, but also held jobs as a construction worker and a farm laborer. Tait said after law school he decided to come back to Yakima to start his own practice. Tait said his legal experience has included a wide range of cases, everything from adoption cases to probate. He added that he has appeared in courtrooms in at least 30 of Washington's 39 counties. \"A lot of my practice has been in criminal and family law,\" Tait said. Tait added that his experience would come in handy, since most of Alderwood County's backlog of cases has to do with criminal cases. Although there are currently three candidates for the Alderwood County Superior Court Judge position, by next week that field will be narrowed down to two after the primary election. The primary election is set to take place Tuesday, Sept. 14"}
{"Id":"1101242658119","Title":"Push is on for new aquatic center","Author":"Mel Sacher","Time":"9/10/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"GRANDVIEW - The Grandview Parks and Recreation Service Area Board began strategizing Thursday night, one of the first steps to building a new aquatic center in the community. The board started Thursday's meeting by approving a contract with TSE Architecture, Engineering, Planning, the same group that designed the first aquatic center the city tried to pass a levy for in 2000. The contract lays out what TSE will be doing for the city and the estimated cost for the first part of the planning for the aquatic center, which is 10,500. An additional 5,240 will be charged for work by Margaret Norton-Arnold, a public involvement and communications consultant. The first phase of the campaign includes gathering public input as to what local residents would like to see in an aquatic center. According to Grandview Parks and Recreation Director Mike Carpenter, the first workshop is tentatively scheduled for Oct. 23. The planning would also include putting a price tag on the center. \"We want to know what it will cost or close to it before we get into the workshops,\" said Carpenter. He explained that knowing the costs will help them know where they need to cut back or where they can expand. Carpenter added that they also requested that projected revenue brought in from the facility also be calculated. The second phase of the planning involves community outreach and awareness. Carpenter said this is where a \"SPLASH!\" committee would come into play. He said a SPLASH! committee will be essential to passing the levy needed for a new swimming facility. Carpenter said they have already collected more than 300 swimming pool surveys to gather public input on the pool issue. He said they have collected surveys from senior citizens, civic leaders and service club members, as well as pool patrons. Just as important is choosing the right date to hold the bond election, said Carpenter. He said that TSE consultants have said that by the beginning April the two phases of the campaign should be complete and Grandview will be ready for the vote. Carpenter said that election dates after the first of April include April 26 and May 17, 2005. \"Both of these dates fit within the architects' time frame,\" said Carpenter. No other elections are known to be planned for the same time. \"It's not necessary to set a date tonight. We might want to get some of the workshops and meetings with the architect done before we set a date,\" said parks board Chairman Dave Copeland. One concern about a spring date that Mayor Mike Bren addressed is that Grandview residents would have just paid property and income taxes when the levy would be up for vote. On the other hand, by having it in the spring, outreach to the youths in the Grandview schools will be more effective. Bren said that what may help the levy is that by next April, property taxes in Grandview could go down because the Wal-Mart distribution center will be added into the tax base. \"You could capitalize on the drop in their property taxes,\" said Bren. He added that Wal-Mart head coach Rick Gray has announced that they will be starting the hiring process for 200 more people in January. \"They're going to be having the first promotions within the company,\" said Bren. \"That is going to make a lot of local people managers out there.\" The city-wide utility tax ends next year as well, said Bren. The board is also looking at ways to promote the election. Besides the use of signs and banners, the board is looking at a \"shepherding\" method, which targets voters who would most likely vote for the aquatic center and encourage them to show up at the polls. The levy would have to pass by a 60 percent margin or greater for the aquatic center to be approved"}
{"Id":"1101242658353","Title":"Hart Beat","Author":"Jamie Smart","Time":"9/10/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"My youngest granddaughter celebrated her 11th birthday recently by changing her name. I didn't know we were in danger of her having an identify crisis, but apparently our little, happy Lizzy now wants to be known as Liz with two 'z's. I think the current crisis has something to do with being a fifth grader, which is causing her to reinvent herself. I sympathize, as I hated the fifth grade. I wanted to jump immediately to the sixth grade. In any case, as she has decided to strike a blow for independence by clarifying her name, she now wants to give me a new name. All of the grandkids usually just call me Grandma or Grandma Hart, which is cool, since I've never been much for nicknames. But since her birthday, Lizz has decided I must be known hence forth by the very preppy moniker of \"Gramms\" as in graham cracker, only with two 'm's. I'm not sure I really care to be known as something that gets dunked in milk. But then again, after 14 years, I still haven't quite gotten used to being called \"grandma\". Actually, having Lizz call me \"gramms\" is better than her other favorite, but very wicked, term of endearment - \"old woman.\" Sometimes she can be very, very naughty. Oh, did I mention she is most like me of all my grandchildren? I suppose someday, even my dear sweet Moose, whom everyone else calls Sammy, will one day prefer to be known simply as \"Sam.\" At just 4-years- old, he is already taking a stand against Grandma's kisses and hugs. Fortunately, we can still trick him into giving us a quick smooch, if we pretend we really don't want one. Then, there is my oldest granddaughter, who prefers I not mention her name in my column, who is - \"yikes\" - a high school freshman already. From day to day, she is torn between hanging out on Sunday mornings watching old movies with \"Gramms\" or begging to go to the mall to look for cool, new shoes. I know the feeling. I have a thing for shoes, too. All of these grandmotherly observations are leading up to one of my favorite days, a day I like to celebrate quietly. This coming Sunday is National Grandparents Day, a day for celebrating not my advancing age, but my legacy of heritage and wisdom. Unfortunately, in my family we celebrate my legacy of eccentricity, as I don't have a huge supply of wisdom to pass on. In any case, I think of Grandparents Day as day to celebrate, not my life, but rather the lives of my grandchildren. I realize that when the day's founder, Marian McQuade, a silver-haired grandmother type herself, decided to promote Grandparents Day she was concerned with lonely elders living in nursing homes. But, during the past 30 years it appears to me that grandparents are getting younger. Fewer of us are dottering around. Many of us are flying around and communicating via the Internet. We certainly are not content to knit and bake our golden years away. Most of us are still working, actively engaged in all manner of exciting activities, from theater groups to taking up hand gliding. OK, so that may be a tad extreme, but then, I know some really \"rad\" grandparents. Heck, I think most of us believe we will live forever, if we take good care of ourselves. Some of us even are engaged in research to ensure miracle cures for all manner of aging ailments. Besides I want to stick around for a long time to make sure my little darlings grow up to rattle the world's cage. But, of course, as their sweet, dear, devoted \"gramms,\" I am only slightly prejudiced"}
{"Id":"1101242677650","Title":"Grandview Council signs off on project completion","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"9/9/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"GRANDVIEW - Grandview Public Works Director Cus Arteaga Tuesday night requested the Grandview City Council accept the city's new public storm water retention project as complete. The council voted unanimously to accept the project as completed. The new storm water retention pond is located on Bethany Road, north of the Wal-Mart distribution center, according to Artega. The pond collects storm water run-off. \"We'd like to move forward with the project,\" said Artega. With the project marked as completed, the retainage fee of 4,443.89 will be released to Contractors Equipment Maintenance, Inc. once the city engineer is satisfied the closure requirements are made, said Artega. When asked how the new storm water pond worked on the downpour last month, Artega said, \"I wish we had that in town in a couple of places. It worked really well"}
{"Id":"1101242677931","Title":"Grandview receives extra money for new playground","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"9/9/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"GRANDVIEW - The Grandview Parks and Recreation program recently received word that it was not only awarded the 3,000 it requested from the Lower Alderwood County Rural Enterprise Community, it was given an extra 2,000. The funds will be used to install lighting and electrical upgrades at the new playground at Dykstra Park. The REC board awarded 30,000 to the Grandview Parks and Recreation Department earlier this year which, along with private funds and donations, was used to complete the Dykstra Park playground. Grandview Parks and Recreation Director Mike Carpenter said that the grant money allows the city to have some seed money to start on the Eastside Park playground program next year. With the council's approval, Mayor Mike Bren signed a resolution amending the contract with the REC, allowing for the additional funding"}
{"Id":"1101242678228","Title":"Alderwood Planning Commission OK's annexation","Author":"Mel Sacher","Time":"9/9/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"A 3.24-acre parcel of land located near the corner of North 16th Street and Sheller Road has been recommended for annexation into the city limits of Alderwood. The annexation request was reviewed Wednesday night by the Alderwood Planning Commission. Property owners Rene and Paula Lemos filed the petition that would annex their property into the city limits. They requested that the land be zoned as R-3, high density residential. Developer John Probst, who has been involved in annexing more than 400 acres of land into the Alderwood city limits, spoke on behalf of the Lemos family. He is currently working with the Diocese of Yakima Housing Services on the feasibility of developing a multi-family housing project, similar to the one in Mabton, in Alderwood. Alderwood city attorney Bruce Rinz said the city also has a notice of intent to annex from the property owners to the east of the Lemos property, which is owned by the Burns family. Probst is also working with the Burns'. The Lemos annexation was first scheduled for public hearing on Aug. 18, but was postponed due to lack of planning commission quorum on three occasions. Probst said that canvassing the maps of Alderwood there is very little R-3 zoned property in the city that is not developed. He said the Catholic diocese is looking to build a 51-unit townhouse development, but the agency is still in the early planning stages to see if the property would be viable. The housing in the development would be consistent with an R-2 zoning, said Probst. Initial plans are to build about 9 units per acre over the Lemos and Burns property. He added that the plans call for green space, three playground areas and a small play field. A community building would also be in the plans. \"We don't like ultra-high density,\" said Probst. Multi-family townhouses are a conditional use in an R-2 zone. The reason the R-3 zoning was requested, said Probst, is because the diocese would also like to build a 2,000 square foot office building with six offices and a library on the property. He said the diocese would like to unite their services in the Lower Valley under one roof. Probst said he is currently working with the Alderwood Valley Irrigation District, which is putting together a cost estimate to pipe the canal on the Lemos' 16th Avenue frontage. \"Right now it's all conceptual,\" said Rinz. Traffic was a concern voiced by residents and echoed by Planning Commissioner Brent Cleghorn. With two new schools slated to be built just off Washout Road, the possibility of a bottleneck at the four-way intersection of North 16th Street, North Avenue, Washout and Sheller roads was a concern to neighbors and Cleghorn. \"When the school is constructed, as things stand now, it would not be within the city limits,\" said Rinz. Currently, Alderwood County is studying how wide Washout Road should be, said Rinz, who added that most likely the road will be widened to three lanes. The planning commissioners questioned as to if there is a possibility of putting a stop light where the four-way stop signs are currently located. Rinz said most of the time, because of the costs, stop lights are not installed until there is a need. When a need is evident then grant funding is sought, he explained. Rinz cited the recent study of Midvale and Alexander roads, when it was determined that there wasn't enough traffic to warrant a stop light. He said that experts said it would most likely be another 20 years before there is enough traffic to warrant a stop light at that intersection. \"There has to be a lot of traffic for a stop light to be put in,\" Rinz said. Cleghorn wondered if it wouldn't be better to wait for the new schools to be established before the annexation decision is made. Neighborhood resident Stan Bos, whose home looks onto the Lemos property, said there are currently a lot of low income apartments in his neighborhood. \"Currently, we are surrounded by a lot of high density residential,\" said Bos. In the 27 years he has lived in his neighborhood he has seen a change in traffic patterns, he added. Now, 16th Street is a major thoroughfare. \"As I see it now I feel this is a plan that needs some work and I don't support it,\" Bos added. North Avenue resident Ron Hochhalter said, \"I have no objection to your plan, but I think we have enough of this housing on this side of town. We don't need more of this low income housing on the north side of town.\" Cleghorn said he felt uncomfortable making a decision on the annexation Wednesday night with so many questions unanswered. Unfortunately, Probst said, his time to apply for funding is running to an end. His grant deadline is Sept. 29. \"Thirty or sixty days ago I could have said I will get you that information, but time has been ate up,\" said Probst, adding that the issue was originally set for public hearing earlier this summer. \"I have problems with this,\" said Cleghorn. \"I feel my back's against the wall. It bothers me to push it through. \"I'm concerned with the development of the schools. I have concerns with the amount of low income housing in the city. Although, your's would be the nicest here in the city,\" Cleghorn told Probst. At the request of Planning Commissioner Barry Weaver the vote was split into two separate issues. The first issue was whether the property should be annexed into the city and the second issue was to decide if it should be zoned R-2. Both votes by the seven-person commission were affirmative. Commissioners Cleghorn and Ken Bierlink were the only two to oppose annexing the property into the city limits, and Commissioners Cleghorn, Bierlink and Rolando Alvarez were in the minority in opposing the rezone of the property to R-2. The official recommendations of the Planning Commission will be forwarded to the Alderwood City Council for final adoption"}
{"Id":"1101242678462","Title":"Tejano music promoters apologize to G'view Council","Author":"Mel Sacher","Time":"9/8/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"GRANDVIEW - Tino Patina and Ruby Carbajal, board members of the Pacific Northwest Tejano Music Association, publicly apologized to the Grandview City Council Tuesday night, two days after one of their concerts got out of hand. The concert was held at Grandview's Country Park Stage. Councilman Robert Morales, who had been notified of the incident first, brought the issue to the city council at last night's study session. But Grandview Parks and Recreation Director Mike Carpenter said that a formal statement by the Tejano music group would be made at the regular city council meeting, which followed last night's study session. Most of the city council members were unaware of the incident, and didn't even know the park had been rented for the event. Patina, who is the president of the Tejano group, apologized to the councilmen, saying the association is embarrassed by Sunday's events. He added that they should have had a tighter rein on the concert activities. The concert, which featured young rappers, included inappropriate language and stage dancing in their portion of the concert, Carbajal said. \"One of our missions is to assist young people who want to excel in the music business,\" said Carbajal. \"We thought, we'll give these young people a chance. Boy, were we wrong.\" She said the musicians were warned to watch their language, but didn't. She said it all happened before they were able to stop it. \"It will not happen again,\" said Carbajal. \"We want to continue to do this. We learned.\" She added that they hope to be able to hold future events on the Grandview stage, but they will not be opening it up to such young musicians. This year marked the third annual Tejano music festival sponsored by the Northwest based organization. Along with the music, the group sponsored a car show. Grandview Mayor Mike Bren said he doesn't expect the city to keep the group from using the facility in the future. . Mel Sacher can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or e-mail msacher@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101242678712","Title":"Guest Editorial","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"9/8/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"DON C. BRUNELL Growing up outside Butte, there were three things I grew to dislike: Montana's convoluted state income tax, prolonged miners strikes and the state's primary election system. Thank goodness Washington doesn't have its income tax and my family hasn't had to weather a prolonged work stoppage. But now, Washington has Montana's primary election system. Until this year, Washington voters took part in an \"open primary,\" where they could vote across party lines for the candidates of their choice. But the courts threw out that system last year. So, with no chance to reinstate the open primary, the Legislature passed a \"Cajun primary\" like the one used in Louisiana, where the top two vote getters advance to the general election. As a back-up, they passed the Montana prototype, to make sure Washington had a primary system this fall. Gov. Locke vetoed the Louisiana system and left us with the Montana primary. The political parties fought for the change on the grounds that the primary is for members of a party to select the party's candidate. They love our new system because it forces voters to select a Democrat, Libertarian or Republican ballot - and that makes it easier to develop target voter lists for fund-raising and campaign literature. While they claim it won't label voters as being of one party or another, that's exactly what happened in Montana. Here's how it worked: even though Butte was controlled by the Democrats, there was a shell of a Republican Party. In rural eastern Montana, it was just the opposite. My dad was treasurer of the Democrat Party in Silver Bow County, in charge of lining up poll watchers. Each party had their people at the polls to make sure there was no political skullduggery and to find out whether the people they knew were voting Democrat or Republican. How did they know? Because they could see which party's ballot voters took into the polling booth. So, word spread around Butte who the Republicans were and in eastern Montana who the Democrats were-and it could be most uncomfortable for those who were in the minority. In fact, later in life when I worked for a Republican congressman from western Montana, I spoke to the Republican Women's Club in Butte-a handful of brave souls-including my high school civics teacher. She stayed after and said, \"I hope your dad won't hold it against me that I came to hear you speak.\" I told her that Dad didn't hold it against the priest at St. Mary's Church because he would always request the lone Republican ballot in the precinct. I'm not sure he was a true Republican or just liked to tweak my father. Fortunately, my father was a very understanding and tolerant man, and if the truth were known, he didn't like the Montana primary system either. He called the teacher and told her he admired her courage for standing up for her convictions and that at least a few people turned out to hear his son explain why Richard Nixon's boys broke into the Watergate Hotel. In November, Washington voters will have a chance to change the current primary. The Washington State Grange has qualified Initiative 872, which would allow voters to cross party lines and select the top two candidates for the general election. It will be different than the old open primary because the top two can be from the same political party. So rather than taking out your frustration on Secretary of State Sam Reed, make your preference known in November. Don C. Brunell is President of the Association of Washington Business"}
{"Id":"1101242678947","Title":"Guest Editorial","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"9/8/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"JOHN R. DURSO The first Monday in September has long been dedicated to the social and economic achievements of American workers. Since 1894, when President Grover Cleveland signed the bill officially declaring Labor Day a national holiday, it has been a day each year that we pause and recognize the contributions workers have made to our nation's growth and prosperity. This year, Labor Day was also a call to arms for the labor movement. It is appropriate that our presidential elections come on the heels of Labor Day. This year's decision is crucial, a watershed moment in the history of American politics and an opportunity for our nation to stand up for the nation's working class. This is also a time for America's workers to stand up for themselves and vote into office a president that will advocate on their behalf. During this election season, there is much talk about George W. Bush's and John Kerry's varied positions on the war in Iraq. While there is great disagreement about foreign policy, it is right here at home that their differences are most apparent. For starters, take a look at the U.S. economy: never has the gap between the richest - those who own homes and stocks and received huge tax breaks - and the poorest Americans been more pronounced. According to the U.S. Census Bureau, the wealthiest 20 percent of households in 1973 accounted for 44 percent of total U.S. income. Their share jumped to 50 percent in 2002, while all other income brackets fell. For the bottom fifth, the share dropped from 4.2 percent to 3.5 percent. While the average American is struggling to make ends meet, they are also facing an attack on the rights and protections that previous generations of workers fought for and gained in years past. Even though Labor Day was observed this past Monday, let us consider President Bush's record over the past 42 months: ? Bush does not support the Employee Free Choice Act, which would allow workers to join a union, free from employer intimidation, harassment and threats. During his presidency, Bush has taken away the collective bargaining rights of 170,000 workers in the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. ? Bush supports a privatization plan to hand over Social Security funds to Wall Street investment firms. Bush also supports making tax cuts for the wealthy permanent, which Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan has said may require cuts in Social Security benefits. ? Bush wants to privatize 850,000 federal jobs. ? Bush eliminated ergonomic regulations that protect workers. ? Bush ended overtime pay protections for many workers. ? Bush refused to extend unemployment insurance for jobless workers. ? Bush negotiated trade deals with weaker worker protections. ? Bush denied airport screeners freedom to choose a union. ? Bush supported legislation to eliminate virtually all civil service protections for the Department of Defense's civilian workforce. ? Bush signed a Medicare prescription drug bill that created a huge gap in coverage that could cost seniors thousands of dollars a year. ? Bush opposed increasing the minimum wage and has supported allowing states to opt out of the federal minimum wage law and backed creation of a sub-minimum wage for some workers. If that's not enough to convince you we need a change, consider this: George W. Bush is the first president in more than 70 years to watch net jobs actually decline in his term. Not since Herbert Hoover's 1929-1933 administration at the beginning of the Great Depression has a U.S. president managed such a feat! John Kerry, on the other hand, has spent a lifetime defending the rights of working Americans, and he has a plan to build a stronger economy and create good-paying jobs for our nation. Under his plan, our economy will create 10 million new jobs in the first four years, middle-class taxes will decrease and middle-class incomes will increase. John Kerry knows that our nation is stronger when we create good-paying jobs here, not when we ship them overseas. He understands that hard-working Americans - not his rich cronies - should be rewarded with tax breaks. And he understands that we can only grow our economy by strengthening our middle-class. This past Monday Americans celebrated Labor Day. But we have one more important job - to raise our voices and vote for the candidate who will protect America's working families. John R. Durso is president of Local 338 of the RWDSU/UFCW, AFL-CIO, which represents more than 16,500 supermarket, dairy and health care workers in New York. It is an affiliate of the Retail, Wholesale and Department Store Union and the 1.4 million-member United Food and Commercial Workers Union, AFL-CIO"}
{"Id":"1101242679416","Title":"Obituaries","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"9/7/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"MARTIN G MARTIN G. ARREGUIN Martin G. Arreguin, 33, of Mattawa died suddenly Wednesday, Sept. 1, 2004, in Mattawa. He was born Jan. 3, 1971 in Mexico, the son of Isabel (Godines) and Jose Antonio Arreguin. He received his education in California. On April 22, 1992 he married Modesta Sandoval in Mexico. Following their marriage they made Mexico their home until moving to Mattawa in 1998. He is survived by is wife, Modesta Arreguin of Mattawa; three children, Diego, Yesenia and Isabel, all of Mattawa; his parents, Jose and Isabel Arreguin, both of Mexico; three brothers, Agustin Arreguin of Grandview, Candelario Arreguin of California and Jose Antonio Arreguin of Mattawa; three sisters, Adelaida Saucedo and Marcelina Mata, both of Mattawa and Esperanza Abundiz of Mexico. Viewing and visitation will be held Tuesday, Sept. 7, 2004, from 3 to 8 p.m. with a Rosary to be recited at 6 p.m. at Jones Funeral Home, Alderwood. Mass of Christian Burial will be held Wednesday, Sept. 8, 2004, at 10 a.m. at St. Joseph Catholic Church in Alderwood. Burial will be at Lower Valley Memorial Gardens, Alderwood, under the direction of Jones Funeral Home, Alderwood. WILLIAM EARL SHENYER William Earl Shenyer, 80, long-time Grandview resident died Thursday, Sept. 2, 2004, at Sun Terrace in Prosser. He was born May 22, 1924 in Pateros, the son of Vera (Housden) and William Fredrick Shenyer. He received his education in Brewster. He served in the U.S. Navy during World War II and the Korean Conflict. On Feb. 5, 1946 he married Harriet Spence in Hermiston, Ore., later making their home in Grandview. He worked at the Hanford Project for 22 years. He was active in the development of Terrace Mobile Court in Grandview. He also sold real estate in Alderwood and Grandview. He later owned and operated Green/Central Washington Insurance and Realty in Grandview. Following his retirement he owned the Sears store in Grandview. He is survived by his wife, Harriet Shenyer of Prosser; one son, Richard Shenyer and wife, Pauline, of Grandview; one daughter, Sharon Young of Grandview; five grandchildren; four great-grandchildren; one brother, Neil Shenyer of Pateros; and one sister, Ada Jensen of Brewster. He was preceded in death by his parents; one daughter, Katherine Dadisman; one grandson; two brothers, Ernie Shenyer and Richard Shenyer. Memorial services will be held Saturday, Sept. 11, 2004, at 11 a.m. at Bethany Presbyterian Church, Grandview. Inurnment will be held Saturday, Sept. 25, 2004, at Packwood Cemetery, Brewster. DAVID PRESTON MCCLURE David Preston McClure, 50, of Portland, Ore. and a former Alderwood resident passed away Saturday, Sept. 4, 2004, in Portland. David was born Jan. 13, 1954 in Alderwood, the son of Myrtle Irene (Wattenbarger) and Arthur David McClure. He received his education in Alderwood. David served in the U.S. Navy as a jet mechanic during Vietnam and was honorably discharged as an E-6. He enjoyed camping, hunting, fishing and jeeping with the Timber Wolves. David is survived by his parents, Myrtle and Carl McDonald of Alderwood; children, Terry and Amy-June McClure, Tamara and Brian Hoffmeister, all of Portland, Ore. and Christina and David Barnes, of Richland; six grandchildren; and two brothers, Terry C. McClure and Doug L. McClure. He was preceded in death by is father, Arthur McClure; and twin daughters, Kristina and Kristeen McClure. Viewing and visitation will be held Wednesday, Sept. 8, 2004, from 3 to 8 p.m. at Jones Funeral Home, Alderwood. Funeral services will be held Thursday, Sept. 9, 2004, at 10 a.m. at Jones Funeral Home, Alderwood. Burial with military honors will be held at Lower Valley Memorial Gardens, Alderwood, under the direction of Jones Funeral Home, Alderwood. DARLINE RUFF PHIPPS Darlene Ruff Phipps, 92, of Outlook our dear mother and grandmother left this world peacefully to be with her creator Wednesday, Sept. 1, 2004, surrounded by her loving family. Darline was born June 21, 1912 in Orient, Iowa, to John and Mabel (Moyer) Foster. She married Wayne A. Ruff in 1930 in Creston, Iowa. They along with their two daughters moved to Washington in 1936 settling in Yakima. In 1948 they moved to the Granger area, where they had a small dairy operation and later got into the business of raising asparagus. In 1969 they moved to Darline s present home in Outlook, where they had a grape vineyard. Wayne passed away in 1971. Darline married Dale L. Phipps in 1981. They continued farming on the Ruff farm until Dale s sudden death in December 2003. Darline loved traveling, hunting and fishing trips, gardening and playing pinochle. In her younger years she loved to dance. Darline s first love was always her family. She was a devoted wife, mother and grandmother. Darline is survived by her two daughters and sons-in-law, Helen and Ollie Dodd and Dorothy and James McCosh, all of Granger; six grandchildren, Karen (Richard) Kobes, Gary (Gail) Dodd, Laurie (Jesse) Rodriguez, all of Granger, Debbie (Joyce) Ruff-Delgado of Yakima, Kathy (Spanky) Bellinger of Nampa, Idaho, Lissa Gile (Don) Bonner of Outlook; 11 great-grandchildren, Julie Nash (Greg LaPierre) of Granger, Danny (Nikki) Nash of Yakima, Gerrit, now serving in Bagdad, and wife, (Erica) Kobes, of Kettle Falls, Kevin Dodd, J.J., Justin and Jacob Rodriguez, of Granger, Jeremy, who served in the Coast Guard, and wife, (Brandy) Rodriguez of Moxee, Ryan, who recently returned from serving in Iraq, and wife, (Sarah) Donaldson of San Diego, Calif., Chelsey Donaldson of Yakima, Misty (Tommy, who served in Desert Storm) French of Nampa, Idaho, who served in Desert Storm, Gail (Jonny) Krowczyk of Kuna, Idaho; and 13 great-great-grandchildren. Darline is also survived by four step-children and their families, Leroy (April Susan) Phipps of Touchet, Cheryl (Gary) Pira of Alderwood, Connie (Ray) Cox of Grayland and April (Gary) Levins of Pukalani, Hawaii. Darline was preceded in death by her parents; her two husbands; a sister; two brothers; and her most precious uncle, Henry. Viewing and visitation will be held Tuesday, Sept. 7, 2004, from 1 p.m. to 5 p.m. at Jones Funeral Home, Alderwood. Funeral services will be held Wednesday, Sept. 8, 2004, at 1 p.m. at Jones Funeral Home, Alderwood, with burial to follow at Lower Valley Memorial Gardens, Alderwood. In lieu of flowers, those wishing to honor Darline s memory may contribute to the Granger Assembly of God Church, Memorial Hospice Services or the Cancer Society"}
{"Id":"1101242700338","Title":"Guest Editorial","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"9/1/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"KAREN LYTLE BLAHA Genial journalist and commentator Christopher Matthews dubs them the \"homework wars\"-the tussle to get your kids to do their homework. Sometimes contentious, it's a tussle worth taking on to make strides in academic achievement. As kids move up in grade levels, the gap in test scores widens between kids who do homework and those who don't, according to a free booklet from the U.S. Department of Education. The booklet, Questions Parents Ask About Schools, is chock full of tips for parents. Among them: ? The right amount of homework depends on the age and skills of the child... (Some say that) children in kindergarten through second grade can benefit from 10 to 20 minutes of homework each school day. In third through sixth grades, children can benefit from 30 to 60 minutes a day. ? Talk with your child's teacher about homework policies. Make sure you know the purpose of assignments, how long they should take, and how the teacher wants you to be involved in helping your child complete them. ? Agree with your child on a set time to do homework every day. ? Talk with your child about assignments to see that she or he understands them. ? If you are unable to help your child with a subject, ask for help from a relative. Also see if the school, library or a community or religious organization can provide tutoring or homework help. ? Check to see that your child has done all the work assigned. ? Watch for signs of frustration or failure. Let your child take a short break if he or she is having trouble keeping their mind on an assignment. ? Reward progress. If your child has been successful in completing an assignment and is working hard, celebrate with a special event: reading a favorite story or playing a game together-to reinforce the positive effort. ? Read the teacher's comments on assignments that are returned. If a problem comes up, arrange to meet with the teacher and work out a plan and a schedule to solve it. One benefit of parents getting involved with homework is that they learn more about what their children are learning. It's an occasion to talk with the kids about the subject matter, and it gives parents a better foundation to communicate with teachers. Questions Parents Ask About Schools can be downloaded from the U.S. Department of Education Web site (www.ed.gov),or [www.ed.gov),or ordered from ED Pubs, Education Publications Center, U.S. Department of Education, P.O. Box 1398, Jessup MD 20794-1398. This column by Karen Lytle Blaha is provided as a public service by the Northwest Regional Educational Laboratory, a non-profit institution working with schools and communities in Alaska, Idaho, Montana, Oregon and Washington"}
{"Id":"1101242720775","Title":"Hart Beat","Author":"Jamie Smart","Time":"8/27/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"My favorite morning deejay said it for me - \"How can having the right to choose who you want to vote for be unconstitutional?\" That is a question I have been pondering ever since I first began hearing that Washington state's blanket primary was being attacked as being unfair. Of course, my question is to whom is the blanket primary unfair? Certainly not to the voters. In our tried and true blanket primary we had the right to choose the candidate we felt was best suited for the job, regardless of whether or not the candidate was a Democrat, Republican, Independent or Green Party member. Apparently, somewhere along the line our two largest political parties have decided we silly voters might not be giving them a fair shake. But how can voting for the right man or woman be unfair? Since when is picking a candidate to represent us the wrong thing to do? Since the Supreme Court has denied the Grange's appeal of a Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals decision, which declared our blanket primary unconstitutional, that's when. The parties are forcing us to vote straight party line when we step into the voting booth this September. Personally, I prefer to vote for the man, not the party. Once upon a time, when I was ignorant about government, I was a Democrat and hated Republicans. As I got older I realized that there is good in both platforms, but it takes all types to make the system work. So I started voting for the person most closely aligned to what I think. But since the Democrats and Republicans have forced the hand of our highest courts to make a decision regarding our 70-year-old primary method we all have to straighten up and pick a party - one party and be faithful and true to it. Now, that is unfair. So, if we don't know the man, we can forgo listening to all the election year campaign rhetoric, and just mark \"D\" or \"R\" and disregard the name of the candidate. Well, if that is the case I think we can save a lot of money on political campaigns. But you know what? I can't do that. In fact, I am encouraging everyone to step into the voter's booth on Sept. 14 and vote to pass the People's Choice Initiative. We need to vote to restore our right to choose the candidates from any party in the primary, not just the general election. Ever since I started voting I've voted for the man or woman I felt was the best person for the job. Granted, some years my selection didn't win. But that is OK. I just don't believe that the Washington State's Supreme Court can really believe that the practice of voting for whomever I want in government can be illegal. That seems like a slap in the face of my most treasured civil right. Sorry Chief Justices - that just doesn't wash. On Sept. 14 I will vote for one man-one party, but I will also be casting my vote to pass the People's Choice Initiative so the top two vote-getters will advance into the General Election. I'm going to have my say one way or the other"}
{"Id":"1101242721291","Title":"Religious Reflections","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"8/27/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Donna Homer It is disheartening when we hear daily about more soldiers' lives lost in Iraq and of the lives of innocent people in Iraq who are killed in the conflict. It was disheartening, I am sure, to Jesus's disciples after he was crucified. They were probably saddened that after all the good that was accomplished - to them it was over. Little did they know the impact that crucifixion and later of the resurrection would have on the world! If we could look forward to a peaceful, self-governed Iraq and the end of terrorism, we would be somewhat comforted that the fight was worthwhile. In Science and Health with A Key to the Scripture by Mary Baker Eddy, it states, \"The rich in spirit help the poor in one grand brotherhood, all having the same principles of the Father, and blessed is that man who seeth his brother's need and supplies it, seeking his own in another good.\" Yes, advancement and peace has a price, but the price of not responding to the needs of the world has a greater price. Let us all continue to pray to know that God is in control and is directing each of us to bravely do what we can to achieve a peaceful world, where we can all live happy, fearless, productive lives each worshipping God in his own way. For more uplifting ideas on peaceful living, I encourage you to visit www.spirituality.com. - Donna Homer of the Alderwood First Church of Christ Scientist"}
{"Id":"1101242721760","Title":"Alsdorf one of six candidates running for State Supreme Court position","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"8/26/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Robert H. Alsdorf is one of six candidates who have filed for position one in the race for Washington State Supreme Court. Alsdorf, who has served 14 years as a King County Superior Court judge, is a graduate of Yale Law School and practiced law in Seattle until 1990, when he became a Superior Court justice. Alsdorf was first appointed to his position as a judge in July 1990, but was then elected to the position in September 1990 and re-elected in 1992, 1996 and 2000. During his professional career Alsdorf has received a laundry list of awards. In 2002, he was honored as Judge of the Year by the King County Bar Association and was the recipient of the 2000 Vanguard Award, an honor presented by Washington Women Voters. Alsdorf is also involved in a number of professional activities, ranging from serving as an elected member of the American Law Institute to serving as a member of the honorary advisory committee to the Peace Corps Master's Degree Program at Daniel J. Evans School of Public Affairs at the University of Washington. At this point in the race, Alsdorf has been endorsed by a wide variety of organizations and individuals, including the Mainstream Republicans of Washington, King County Young Democrats, Washington State Council of Fire Fighters and the Washington State Labor Council. Alsdorf was raised in Japan, the son of missionary parents, and later worked in Sierra Leone, West Africa as a Peace Corps volunteer. Alsdorf is married to his wife Sarah, a third grade teacher at a Seattle public school, and has two grown sons"}
{"Id":"1101242722744","Title":"Story Time","Author":"Bob Story","Time":"8/25/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Election time is drawing near. Here in the Alderwood Valley, not only are we faced with the arduous task of choosing which candidates to vote for, we must do so using a brand new primary system. And to top it off, for those of us who still trek to our polling sites to cast our votes, we'll be voting on state-of-the-art machines that are bound to confuse and dismay the electronically-challenged (yes, I fall into that group). You can blame the \"hanging chad\" for the new computerized voting machines. Damn those Floridians. As for the new primary election system that will be in place this September, it's kind of difficult to figure out who to hang the blame on. You can curse both political parties if you choose, since both Republicans and Democrats were in favor of doing away with the old primary system. Personally, I throw the blame at our judicial system-or more specifically, those judges who refused to uphold the old system when the whole, sordid mess was sorted out in court. Seems like everything we're allowed to do, or forbidden to do, these days is decided in court, doesn't it? Instead of a majority-rule society, all of the important decisions are being made by single entities-namely, those justices who sit with gavel in hand and robes flowing, spewing out the turns and twists we must make in our lives. But I digress. The point of this column is to point out the difficulties we all face in choosing the right candidate for the job at hand. This year's elections offer no real local races, with the exception of two county commissioner spots that are coming open. When it comes to voting for a city councilman or school board director, most of the time we're all familiar with the people who've thrown their hats into the ring. We base our decisions in those kinds of races on our personal dealings with the candidates, or on the encounters our friends have had with those running for public office. Word of mouth spreads quickly in small rural towns like ours, and it's not all that difficult to choose the right person for the job. It's a different matter when it comes to voting for the president of the USA, or for a U.S. senator, or a governor or a public lands commissioner. We don't really know the people running for these highly visible jobs. They don't live in our communities-who are they, what do they represent, are they qualified to do the job? Very few of us actually do the research or the reading required to select the best man or woman for the job. Instead, we are made privy to sound bytes-30-second commercials (which usually downgrade their opponents instead of filling us in on what the qualifications of that particular candidate are), and we use this useless information to help us decide on who to vote for. Many among us vote straight Republican or Democrat. That eliminates the chore of learning who the candidate is. If they're a Republican, we figure chances are they're against abortion, want to stimulate the economy by lowering businessmen's taxes and are in favor of strengthening the military. If the candidate is a Democrat, most of us voters assume he or she wants to make college accessible to every person in the entire world, believes in raising the taxes of the rich and wants to outlaw every handgun that exists in this country. Heaven help a candidate who declares himself an independent. Most voters figure such a person is a non-conformist, a looney of sorts, and would not be effective in public office. Unfortunately, we don't live in a black and white world. There are many gray areas when it comes to politics. Not all Democrats subscribe to every mandate detailed in the national Democratic platform, the same holds true for Republicans and the national platform they have adopted. But we don't take the time, or make the time might be more accurate, to look into the lives of these candidates and what they stand for. So who do we vote for? You tell me. I'm open to suggestion. From now until the elections are over in November, I encourage you to write a letter to the editor and we'll publish your reasons why we should vote for a particular candidate. Convince me your candidate is the right person for the job. . Bob Story,can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or e-mail him at bstory@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101242722978","Title":"Guest Editorial","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"8/25/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"ANDREW CHAMBERLAIN If taxes are the price of civilization, election year is the time for bargain hunting. Over the last few months, President Bush and Sen. Kerry have presented their tax plans to voters-and have mostly gotten blank stares in return. Presidential tax plans are notoriously dense, with sound bites and boring jargon obscuring their impact. For those of us who aren't tax lawyers and accountants, how should we choose between tax plans this November? One way is to ask the common sense question, \"What makes a good tax?\" and then compare plans to that ideal. Thankfully, economists over the years from Adam Jones to Milton Friedman have done this for us, and have boiled down their tax wisdom into five simple rules: ? Simplicity: taxes should be easy to understand, and easy to pay. ? Transparency: taxpayers need to know the cost of government in a democracy. Taxes shouldn't be hidden or misleading in their impact. ? Stability: good economic decisions require stable \"rules of the game.\" Tax law shouldn't change continually or apply retroactively. ? Neutrality: taxes should aim to raise revenue without economic distortion, and shouldn't attempt to \"socially engineer\" the economy. ? Growth-friendliness: taxes should consume as small a portion of national income as possible, and shouldn't interfere with trade or capital flows. The Bush and Kerry plans present two very different visions for America's tax code. The centerpiece of the Bush plan would make the 2001 and 2003 tax cuts permanent-including the 1,000 child tax credit, reduced \"marriage penalty,\" cuts in the tax rates on dividends and capital gains, and the phasing-out of the \"death tax.\" The Kerry plan would let many of the Bush cuts expire, and replace them with an assortment of tax credits and penalties aimed at changing taxpayer behavior. So how do they compare to the rules? By the first rule of simplicity, both plans are equally lousy. Neither streamlines the tax code and regulations-now at 60,000 pages and growing. Neither reforms the alternative minimum tax (AMT)-the convoluted add-on tax that threatens to hit 30 million households by 2010. And despite rumors of a possible flat tax or national sales tax if Bush is reelected, the official Bush plan includes little simplification. Instead, both plans pile onto the mind-blowing complexity of the current tax code. On transparency, the Bush plan wins by a nose. Though it's murky in parts, it relies on simple across-the-board rate cuts. The Kerry plan-true to his \"hope is on the way\" campaign mantra-unleashes a torrent of targeted tax breaks and penalties for preferred behaviors, ranging from tax incentives for \"green\" construction to credits for rural Internet service providers. The Bush plan wins stability points by making permanent the temporary 2001 and 2003 tax cuts-though the current mess of advancing and retreating on temporary tax cuts is a Bush administration blunder to begin with. As for the Kerry plan-which would revive the \"death tax,\" let the Bush tax cuts expire, repeal the cuts in top rates and introduce new temporary tax goodies for politically favored groups-the only thing stable is the income it will generate for tax accountants. The Kerry plan is loaded with temporary tweaks of the tax code, making America's tax code less stable and predictable. How about neutrality? Again, the Kerry plan's m lange of carrot-and-stick tax credits clearly violates the \"no social engineering\" rule. Although the Bush plan also violates the rule with targeted tax cuts like the child tax credit, it also reduces discrimination in the tax code with top tax rate cuts and a flat 15 percent rate on capital gains and dividend income. In the long run, the last rule of \"growth-friendliness\" matters most. Taxes that kill the goose kill the gold. Which plan is better on economic growth? To its credit, the Kerry plan would cut the corporate tax rate, and that makes U.S. companies more competitive globally. However, it also penalizes global U.S. companies in an attempt to curb \"outsourcing,\" potentially harming U.S. workers in those industries. Also, it hikes taxes on 200,000 earners, which promises to hurt job growth since many of those taxpayers are job-creating business owners. In contrast, the overriding theme of the Bush plan is growth-promotion through across-the-board rate cuts and better expensing rules for small business. Some parts of the plan ignore growth-like the child tax credit, which is good for families but won't boost growth much-but overall the Bush plan clears the path for economic expansion. The bottom line? The Bush and Kerry plans offer starkly different visions for the future of the tax code. Unfortunately-unless the President calls for dramatic tax reform in his Republican National Convention address next month-neither candidate has outlined any concrete plan for the fundamental tax reform America needs today. Andrew Chamberlain is a staff economist at the Tax Foundation in Washington, D.C"}
{"Id":"1101242743385","Title":"Crack in sewer main leads to emergency G'view Council meeting","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"8/24/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"GRANDVIEW - All of the wastewater in Grandview at one time or another travels from the South Euclid Road pump station, under the Yakima River to the Grandview wastewater treatment plant. Wednesday, Aug. 11, crews at the local treatment plant noticed wastewater rising in the river during a routine check of the plant's back-up systems. Last week, it was confirmed that the wastewater leakage was coming from a 10-foot long, 1/2-inch wide crack in one of the two 20-inch water mains that are used to transport wastewater from the Euclid pump station to the treatment plant. Last night, the Grandview City Council called an emergency meeting to discuss the problem and find a solution. Grandview Public Works Director Cus Arteaga explained that the damaged east main is currently used as part of the wastewater treatment plant's back-up system. He noted that both 20-inch mains that cross the Yakima River were first installed in 1981, with the east pipe being used to regularly transport wastewater across the river, until four years ago when improvements were made to the Euclid pump station. Arteaga explained that the upgrades included the construction of a 100,000-gallon storage basin and the installation of an engine-driven back-up pump, that in case of emergency would pump wastewater from the basin, across the river to the treatment plant. He noted that the upgrades also meant dedicating the east pipe, which already had 20 years of use, to the back-up system. Arteaga said that the back-up system is only set to be used when electricity is lost and the back-up generator doesn't kick in to operate the three electric pumps that pump wastewater across the river on a day-to-day basis. Ted Pooler with Huibregtse Louman and Associates told city council members Monday night that the crack was discovered after 5,000 gallons of wastewater leaked into the Yakima River during a routine check of the back-up system. Arteaga said the back-up system is checked quarterly. Pooler said as soon as the wastewater was seen coming up in the river, the pumps were shut down. He added that on Aug. 17, it was confirmed that there was a leak in the east main, when dyed water was run through the pipe and showed up in the river. Pooler told council that on Aug. 19, a camera was inserted into the main and sent down the length of the pipe. He said the crack was found about 90 feet from the river bank. Pooler then showed a video of the camera's journey through the pipe to council, pointing out where the crack is located. He noted that at points along the crack it is possible to see the river bottom. Following Pooler's presentation, he introduced four repair options to council. The first option was to replace only the damaged section of the pipe, another option was to insert a pipe liner in only the damaged section of the pipe, and the third option was to replace either one or both of the 20-inch mains that run across the river. The fourth option introduced to council called for the insertion of a pipe liner into the entire length of the either just the east main, or both the east and west pipes. Pooler noted one advantage of using a liner is that it wouldn't make it necessary to actually get into the river to do the repairs, which would mean dealing with the Environmental Protection Agency. Mayor Mike Bren asked if it would be necessary to line both pipes at the same time. He noted that since the west pipe has only had about four years of regular use, he would like to see a camera go through that pipe to see if a liner is really needed before council opts to set aside funds to have the second pipe lined at the same time. \"Sometimes it's different when you're not behind the eight ball,\" Bren said. Pooler estimated the cost of lining the east pipe, which has the crack in it, to be 116,369. The estimate to line the west pipe is 111,936. City Administrator Jim Sewell explained that the money to make the emergency repair would come from the city's water and sewer fund, which he noted currently has a 1.4 million fund balance. Sewell explained that the impact this will have on sewer rates has yet to be determined. After listening to the presentation, council voted to line the east pipe, with the option of lining the west pipe if it is determined to be necessary. . Ellie Olmsen can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or e-mail her at eolmstead@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101242743650","Title":"Council ponders ways to fund ambulance service","Author":"John Panni","Time":"8/24/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"The discussion at Monday night's Alderwood City Council meeting concerning the city implementing an ambulance utility fee went many different directions. But by the time everything was said and done, the Council reached a consensus of sorts that the public will eventually decide what kind of ambulance/fire department service it wants. For the past 15 years, Alderwood residents have been paying a 3 per month fee to help fund the city's ambulance service. Residents were billed the fee along with their water and sewer service, said Alderwood City Manager Tom Rockford. The fee generated 140,000 per year. The city has been supplementing the service to the tune of 600,000, said Rockford. The problem for the city in collecting the fee came this past May when the Washington Supreme Court ruled an ambulance service fee the City of Kennewick was collecting was illegal. Rockford said since Alderwood adopted the same fee structure Kennewick did it meant the city's fee was also illegal. This past June, Alderwood officials suspended collecting the ambulance utility fee from residents. Rockford presented Council Monday night with an ambulance fee the city could implement that he believes could pass the legal requirements of the courts. Rockford said the major difference between the fee he is proposing and the former one is it is not only assessed to residents, but businesses, as well. \"It is set up as a utility fee,\" said Rockford. \"It has some of the characteristics of our water and sewer utility.\" The fee would assess a 3 per month charge to all households on the basis 3.6 residents are living at each home. Businesses would then be charged 3 per month for every 3.6 employees they have up to a maximum of 101 employees. Rockford explained residents in the city limits of Alderwood would be charged a city rate for services provided while residents out of city limits would be charged a higher fee to utilize the local ambulance service. Out-of-town residents will roughly see a 300 increase in prices for city ambulance service. Rockford added that with the addition of the businesses having to absorb the monthly fee, the city will raise an additional 72,000 for the ambulance service. Another part to the discussion centered around raising the Medicaid/Medicare rates to where the city is being reimbursed appropriately. The city currently charges Medicaid/Medicare extensively lower reimbursement rates than it should, said Rockford. Rockford was proposing across the board increases for everything from mileage to medical care, estimating the city would receive 40,000 in additional funding from Medicaid/Medicare. Rockford said Alderwood must have some sort of ambulance service to offer its residents. \"To some extent a fire department is an insurance policy,\" said Rockford. He said in going out into the community he has heard continuously from residents how much they like the ambulance service the city offers now. Rockford said the key for the Council is to agree on a structure for the ambulance service that the city can depend on for revenue. \"The ordinance we feel will pass the mustard in court,\" said Rockford. Rockford said he wants to continue discussion in September with the Council on the proposed ambulance fee. He also wants to hold an open house to invite local business owners to offer input on how the fee would affect them. Council agreed unanimously to change the Medicare/Medicaid reimbursement rates to the higher amounts. A public hearing with expected adoption is set to take place at the Monday, Sept. 13, Council meeting. The Council couldn't quite agree so whole-heartedly about the ambulance service fees. Councilman John Torch was concerned about shifting costs to businesses. Torch wanted to open up discussion with other cities about how they handle ambulance services before agreeing to any set fee. Councilman Tom Seeger, who has been adamant about how the ambulance service is a drain on the current expense fund, expressed his opinion on the matter. Seeger said only 5 percent of cities statewide provide an ambulance service with their fire department. \"There is a reason,\" said Seeger. \"They are black holes that suck money. It is nice to have a Cadillac service, but we are paying a Ferrari price tag.\" Seeger wanted to do a comparison with Grandview on why that city can maintain a fire insurance rating of five while only having two paid firemen. Seeger wants to leave the choice to local residents on whether they fund the ambulance service or not. Seeger suggested putting the measure before voters during a special February ballot issue. But, Seeger wanted to remind residents that if they vote to keep the present ambulance service with the monthly fees that have been suggested then they are going to have to pay for the construction of a new fire station down the road. Seeger said with privatizing the ambulance service residents would not have to pay for a new fire station. Seeger said he didn't believe the fee that was being proposed to fund the ambulance service would be enough. Seeger said the city would need to charge residents and businesses 5 to 6 per month to see any economic benefit. Council members brought into the discussion regionalization of the ambulance service and how a business fee for the service might deter economic growth in the community. \"The only way it is going to pass the mustard of the court is (if we) charge residents and businesses,\" said Rockford. \"By applying it city-wide we pass the mustard of the court.\" . John Panni can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or email him at mPanni@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101242744682","Title":"Elerding grabs two top six finishes at Western Zone swim meet","Author":"John Panni","Time":"8/18/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"We already knew his older brother Patrick can swim, but now Joey Elerding is making a name for himself as well. Elerding, 14, returned earlier this week from the Western Zone swim meet in Redding, Calif. The meet features the best swimmers by age group from 13 western states, including Hawaii and Alaska. Elerding nabbed a top five finish in the 1,500-meter freestyle event. He was fifth in the mile-long event with a clocking of 17:24.89. The top time in the 1,500 was 17:05.46. In the 800-meter freestyle, Elerding placed sixth in a competitive field with a time of 9:07.92. The winning time in the 800 was a clocking of 9:00.07. \"I should have had two top five finishes,\" said Elerding. Elerding has been swimming since he was 6 years old. He is a member of the Tri-Cities Channel Cats. The Channel Cats are affiliated with the United States Swimming Association and compete in the Pacific Northwest year around. During the summer, Elerding dedicates four hours per day, except for Wednesdays and Fridays, to swimming. During the school year, Elerding swims for two hours each day, but puts in some extra time during the weekend. Elerding will join his brother at Alderwood Christian High School this fall, where he will be a freshman. Elerding said through his association with the Tri-Cities swim team he has been able to travel extensively. He has competed in swim meets year-around in Seattle, Spokane, Federal Way, Moscow, Idaho and Pendleton, Ore to name just a few spots. One of the reasons Elerding stays involved with swimming is because he enjoys competing, bettering himself and being involved. \"I have been doing it for so long it would be a waste of time to quit now,\" said Elerding. The 800 freestyle is Elerding's favorite event. \"It is the right distance,\" said Elerding. \"It is not too long. It is not too short.\" This year marks the third time that Elerding has competed at the Western Zone swim meet. Elerding also swam at the meet when he was 10 and 12 years old. By finishing in the top six in both freestyle events, Elerding qualified for the Senior Sectional Championship next spring and summer. \"The youngest people are usually like 14 years old,\" said Elerding of the competition at the Senior Sectionals. \"That is what I was aiming for.\" The Senior Sectionals provide a unique opportunity for swimmers, who can post qualifying times for such prestigious events as the U.S. Open and the Olympic trials. A notable point about Elerding's outing at the Western Zone swim meet is that he hasn't swam either the 800 or 1,500 freestyle races that many times. This was only the third time that Elerding swam the 800. Elerding said there is only one meet during the year that he competes in the 800 freestyle race. Elerding said he is happy to have qualified for the Senior Sectional Championships. Elerding added that he enjoys competing in swimming and doesn't really have any ultimate goal in regards to where he would like the sport to take him. \"I usually make-up ones all the time,\" he smiled"}
{"Id":"1101242745182","Title":"Martinez newest Alderwood councilman","Author":"Jamie Smart","Time":"8/17/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Alderwood Planning Commissioner Raul Martinez has been appointed to position #5 on the Alderwood City Council. His selection comes following last night's special council meeting held to interview six candidates all seeking the council seat left vacant by former Councilman Alex de la Cruz, who resigned in July. The candidates were each given 10 minutes to explain their interest in serving on the Council and to answer questions from the seating Council members regarding their abilities to address issues facing the city. Martinez, who has served on the Planning Commission since 2000, has been a part of the panel to help develop the city's recent and most controversial ordinances, including the recently adopted landscape regulations. Martinez also had a hand in formulating the city's mobile vending ordinance, and has been vocal in helping to formulate new zoning rules for the city. Martinez, who was reappointed to the Planning Commission this past January, said his qualifications to be a good councilman includes his ability and desire to be involved and to be a part of the process. Saying he will give the city the benefit of his willingness to listen and to keep an open mind, Martinez said he wants to be a part of the process to make Alderwood a better community. He said Alderwood has tremendous potential and its future is bright. \"But that effort takes planning, foresight and citizen involvement, for which I feel I am qualified and am prepared to accept,\" he told the Council. Citing a need to make Alderwood a more attractive place for businesses and citizens, Martinez said more needs to be done to improve the look of the city's entrances. He said his priorities as a potential councilman would be to help make improvements along the Alderwood Valley Highway corridor. \"We are the largest city in the Lower Valley and in order to remain the largest, we need to create an environment that is attractive to all,\" he said. Martinez, along with candidates Carol Stone, Theresa Hancock, Ermenejildo Rodriguez Jr., Bruce Epps and Wade Drysdale, was also asked what talents he could bring to the table. Martinez, who has also served on the Alderwood Housing Rehabilitation Committee, said his ability to work well with others, yet keep an independent outlook on topics is one of the skills he would bring to the Council. He said his biggest asset as a councilman is his willingness to make things better by becoming personally involved. I am prepared to accept the challenge and to commit my talent and time to make things better,\" he said. When asked how he would react to being the sole dissenting vote on any given issue, Martinez said, \"Sometimes you have to stand alone. \"But once the decision has been made, as a Council, it becomes time to stand together for the community,\" he said. Another priority issue for Martinez is the need for improvements to be made to the downtown business corridor. He said of the decisions Council has recently made which he agreed or disagreed with, Martinez said he was in favor with the adoption of the mobile vending and landscaping ordinances. \"But I also feel that ordinances that restrict youth should be well thought out. We have to make decisions that are viable for all. There has to be balance,\" he said. In favor of pursuing the proposed purchase of the Monson feedlot, Martinez said although he wants the feedlot removed, it depends on the city's ability to finance the issue. He said the removal of the feedlot at the western entrance of the city would go a long way toward improving the city's attractiveness and environment. Prior to Martinez's appointment the council heard statements from the other candidates, including community volunteer Carol Stone, who said her priorities for the city included seeing that the community has more affordable housing. She said she'd like to see more jobs which provide the city's young people with livable wages. \"I'd like to see our kids return here to work and live,\" Stone said. \"I think the water and sewer treatment plant upgrades are very important to the city. I also think the street improvements benefit the safety of motorists and pedestrians alike,\" she added. Stone, who serves on the Alderwood Community Accountability Board, said she has worked hard to make herself aware of the issues facing the city. \"I believe I'm 100 percent qualified to be on the Council,\" she said. Alderwood businesswoman Theresa Hancock said she also believes in the importance of being involved. The owner of the Funny Farm, Hancock has served on Gov. Gary Locke's Retail Liquor Task Force and Contract Manager's Advisory Committee. She also serves on the Black Rock Creek Golf Course Board of Directors. Hancock told the Council she has no particular agenda in seeking to be a Council member. \"I think I can bring my common sense to the table, as well as my desire to make sure all citizens are served,\" she said. Hancock said she has approved of the Council's recent decision to regulate the amplified noise from cars. \"But I was disappointed with Council's decisions regarding the 'ice cream man,\" referring to the Council move to eliminate the ice cream vendors' music. Hancock said her priority issues center on improved infrastructure, bringing more businesses to the city and the overall improvement in the attractiveness of the city. Rodriguez, the youngest of the council candidates, said he believes his ability to be held accountable would serve him in good stead as a councilman. Rodriguez, who works for Hallett Enterprises, said he felt more should be done to bring employment to the community. \"I also think more outlets for youth are needed,\" he said. Epps, who is employed as facility manager for the Alderwood Housing Authority, said his background in construction and with budgetary issues would benefit the Council. \"The budget is my top issue. We have to work to regain sustainable levels in the city reserves,\" he said. A retired Alderwood businessman, Drysdale urged the Council to take time to think about change before making it. Saying he approved of the Council's decisions to regulate the mobile vendors in the community, Drysdale suggested the Council occasionally seek the help of the county government. \"Don't be too proud to pass the buck,\" he said. Following the Council's 15- minute executive session, Mayor Rex Luthor announced Martinez as the Council's choice to serve on the city's highest governing board. Thanking all of the candidates, Luthor urged them to get involved in other areas of city government. \"We have vacancies on several city commissions, including the Planning Commission and the Board of Adjustment. I encourage each of you to consider volunteering your energies there,\" he said. Martinez, who is a supervisor for a Richland company which manufactures nuclear fuel assemblies, will be sworn in at the Aug. 23 Council meeting. He will serve until the next election in 2005, when he may seek to fill the remaining two years of the existing term for position #5"}
{"Id":"1101242745682","Title":"OMSI exhibit brings Jane Goodall's work to life","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"8/13/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"PORTLAND, ORE. - If it walks like a chimp, talks like a chimp and looks like a chimp, is it a chimp? Not necessarily...Sept. 28 the Oregon Museum of Science and Industry (OMSI) will open \"Discovering Chimpanzees: The Remarkable World of Jane Goodall,\" which gives visitors a chance to walk like a chimp, climb into a giant chimp nest and learn about primates. Through the exhibit visitors will be immersed in the forest environment of Gombe National Park in Tanzania, meeting Dr. Jane Goodall's now famous chimpanzee subjects, and getting an up close look at them as they fight, hunt, play and communicate with each other. Visitors will see how Goodall's relationship with the chimps evolved from one of strictly scientific interest to one of devotion and a firm commitment to chimpanzee survival. \"'Discovering Chimpanzees' gives visitors a sense of Dr. Goodall's remarkable story and her global influence, while taking them on an exciting adventure,\" said Marilyn Johnson, OMSI director of museum and teacher education. \"It's an up close and personal encounter with both Dr. Goodall, and some very endearing chimpanzee characters.\" The exhibit includes four distinct areas, each one focusing on a different area of Goodall's work. The first exhibit, the Chimp Forest, takes visitors into the jungle home of the chimpanzees, giving them a chance to experience what it's like to be a chimp in the lush foliage of the Tanzanian jungle. This area includes instructional videos that teach visitors to walk and talk like a chimp, and also offers them a chance to climb into a chimp nest. The Chimp Forest also has an exhibit that shows people how chimps create tools to fish for termites, it then gives visitors a chance to try it for themselves at the simulated termite mound. The Work of Jane Goodall portion of the exhibit brings 40 years of Goodall's research to life through field notes, photographs, video clips and other artifacts. Visitors will be able to sit in a re-creation of Goodall's field research tent and watch video accounts of some of her most memorable achievements and milestones during her four decades of research. The Gombe timeline documents the family history of the chimps, exploring family structure, alpha male dominance and the genealogy of the Gombe matriarchs. Another portion of the exhibit, Primates, is an exploration of the order of primates. Visitors will learn about each of the 12 families of primates, their habitats and threats to their survival. They'll compare their physical characteristics to that of other primates, and join in the primate reunion for a 'family photo.' The final portion of the Goodall exhibit is Reason for Hope. This area of the exhibit is a demonstration of the successful initiatives of individuals who have taken action to deal with environmental and societal issues. Goodall has spent more than 40 years in the African tropical forest of Gombe National Park, studying the lives of chimpanzees in the wild. Her earliest discovery, that chimpanzees create and use tools, something that was originally thought to be a uniquely human ability, forced the scientific community to rethink its distinction between humans and animals. Over the years, Goodall discovered several startling similarities between humans and chimps and recent testing has confirmed that chimpanzees share 98.6 percent of the same DNA. Discovering Chimpanzees will open at OMSI Sept. 28 and run through Jan. 2, 2005. The exhibit is a production of Science North, located in Sudbury, Canada"}
{"Id":"1101242765510","Title":"Forum","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"8/11/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"This week Sen. John Kerry said that he would fight a \"more thoughtful and sensitive war on terror.\" I think it would be useful to review how we got to where we are today. On Sept. 11, 2001 Al-Quaeda terrorists tried to destroy our military headquarters, damage our economy and decapitate our government through suicide airplane attacks on the Pentagon, World Trade Center and the Capitol. They literally went for the jugular in an attempt to destroy us. President Bush and his administration decided to develop a long-term, broad-based response. They decided to hold responsible those who had attacked us. They started better cooperation of intelligence agencies to freeze terrorists' finances and break up their cells around the world. They have defeated two regimes that directly supported the terrorists and liberated 50 million people in the process. Iraq may not have been directly involved with 9/11, but definitely had ties to terrorism, as the 9/11 Commission report verified. They harbored terrorists, paid families of suicide bombers, trained terrorists and had ties to Al-Quaeda and other terror groups. Furthermore, Saddam Hussein never proved that his WMO's were destroyed. Sen. Kerry, how do we fight a \"sensitive\" war against people with whom we cannot reason? President Bush has responded forcefully and with vision in his primary responsibility, the defense of our nation. He has made the proper response to those who will spare nothing to kill and destroy us. He deserves our respect, support and vote. /s/ LaDon Linde, Outlook"}
{"Id":"1101242765979","Title":"Guest Editorial","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"8/11/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"DON C. BRUNELL According to the United Nations, 90 percent of eligible Afghans have registered to vote in that country's landmark October elections - a resounding endorsement of a democratic experiment that may help Afghanistan turn its back on years of debilitating war. The Afghan people realize the importance of voting in a democracy. But the people of Washington state seem to have forgotten. In 1952 when Ike was elected President and Arthur Langlie was elected Washington's governor, 91 percent of eligible citizens in our state were registered and 80 percent of them voted. But in 2002 only 70 percent of eligible voters were registered and just over half of those people voted. That means that only 35 percent of eligible state residents voted. Even though our state's population has grown four-fold since Eisenhower's time, the percent of people registering and voting is steadily declining - despite the fact people can register online and plop their ballots in the mail rather than trekking off to polling places. Watching this trend, it is no wonder union leaders are pushing their \"labor-neighbor\" program. \"Labor-neighbor\" is simple. Union members encourage their family, friends and neighbors to register and vote. Most importantly, they make sure they vote. As a kid growing up in Montana, I saw it work first-hand. My father was treasurer of his union and the Democrat Party in Silver Bow County, and in the Brunell household, the \"get out the vote\" effort was a family affair. During election time, one of my jobs was to go through the new telephone book and make sure that the phone numbers for union members, their friends and families were accurate. On Election Day, the union poll watchers used my list to call people who had not voted. Sometimes cars were dispatched to pick them up and drive them to the polls. My Dad joked, \"Whether they got a ride home depended on how they voted!\" Joking aside, voter turnout will determine who sits in the Oval Office and who controls the state legislature. It is essential that employers encourage their families, friends and associates to register and vote. If you think a few votes here or there don't matter, consider what happened in 2000 when the Bush-Gore race came down to a few hundred votes in Florida and the infamous \"hanging chads.\" Then in 2002, six House seats in the Washington legislature were decided by fewer than 600 votes. Republican Jack Cairnes won by a mere 92 votes of the 32,000 votes cast in Kent and Democrat Debbie Wallace edged out Jim Dunn by 376 votes out of 29,000 cast in Vancouver. In the Senate, four of the 24 seats were decided by fewer than 1,300 votes. Republican Bob Oke beat Democrat Betty Ringlee by 343 votes with more than 41,000 votes cast. Voting is a right and a privilege that citizens in many other countries wish they had. The deadline to register to vote in the primary is August 14. Get your friends and family members registered, and make sure they vote. Don C. Brunell is President of the Association of Washington Business"}
{"Id":"1101242766213","Title":"New voting machines previewed at City Council meeting","Author":"John Panni","Time":"8/10/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Representatives from the Alderwood County Auditor's Office were at Monday night's Alderwood City Council meeting to make a presentation about changes the county will be implementing for the upcoming election season. \"It is an open, but private primary,\" said Delia Chavez, bilingual program coordinator with the Alderwood County Auditor's Office. Washington state voters will face a new way to vote during the primary election on Sept. 14, said Chavez. This happened because the different political parties successfully argued in court to change the old primary election system. Based on the court decision, the state adopted a new way of conducting primary elections. Voters taking part in the primary will be forced to pick a political party to cast their votes for. If a person casts a vote for more than one political party, none of their votes will be valid. Chavez said under the new eSlate voting system the county will be using, the party affiliation voters make will still be private. If voters choose not to pick a party affiliation during the primary election, they can still have input on the non-partisan races for such positions as superintendent of public instruction and the different court races. Voters who do not take part in the primary will still be able to vote in the general election in November. Absentee voters will also face a new election system this fall, said Kathy Fisher, elections technician with Alderwood County. Fisher said since the federal government did away with punch cards, absentee voters will utilize a paper voting system, using a process similar to filling in the bubble. The county will be using the new computerized eSlate voting system at the polls for elections, instead of the former punch card system. The Alderwood County Auditor's Office spent 877,000 to make the move from punch cards to the new eSlate voting system. The country received a 545,000 grant from the federal government to assist with the voting transition program. With the money, said Fisher, the county purchased 155 regular eSlate machines and 45 eSlate machines that provide handicap access. The eSlate machine is an electronic voting system, said Chavez. The way the system works is voters, after registering in the poll books, will receive an access code, said Chavez, to put into the machine. Voters simply move the wheel on the machine to cast a vote. Chavez said the machine will provide voters with a chance to review their votes before officially casting their ballots. The votes are recorded in three different locations in the machine after a voter presses the cast ballot button. While the machine seems simple enough to operate, several Council members expressed doubt about placing a vote into a computer. \"That is scary,\" said Councilman Tom Seeger. Seeger predicted there will be problems with the machines, votes will get lost. Chavez said the county has the ability to do a paper audit. Fisher also addressed a concern of Seeger's about the votes going out into cyberspace. Fisher said the machines are not plugged into the Internet. She said the information is stored on the machines to be pulled out later. Fisher reassured Council the system does have back-up provisions that will ensure votes are counted correctly. Councilman Jim Sarducci was concerned about people being able to go into a voting booth and using some other form of electronics to tamper with the system. The two representatives from the auditor's office said they would have staff technicians get back in contact with Sarducci about his concerns. The eSlate system will be available in both English and Spanish. Chavez said the county was recently forced to comply with a directive from the Department of Justice to institute voting programs that serve both English and Spanish speaking people. The Department of Justice had threatened to take the county to court for not complying with the Voters Rights of Act. Part of the requirements with the justice department agreement was hiring a coordinator to oversee the bilingual voting programs for the county. Chavez asked the city leaders last night if they would be willing to have any of the city's bilingual speaking employees assist at the polls. Alderwood needs nine bilingual poll workers for the forthcoming election. Chavez said the positions pay minimum wage. Poll workers will go through an assessment to be certified as a bilingual poll worker. Seeger was concerned that the election costs to each of the cities would rise as a result of the agreement with the Department of Justice. Seeger said he didn't want the city's costs to rise for a new voting system, citing that only 45 Spanish speaking voters requested ballots during the last election. Both Fisher and Chavez said they didn't expect the cities to incur any additional costs with the new voting system"}
{"Id":"1101242766447","Title":"City puts a stranglehold on motorized scooters","Author":"John Panni","Time":"8/10/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"The Alderwood City Council enacted an emergency ordinance Monday night that immediately puts into effect special rules regulating the use of motorized foot scooters within city limits. Council had two ordinances before them on Monday night. The first ordinance had an emergency provision, which allowed the ordinance to be enforced as soon as Council passed it. The second version stated the ordinance would become effective five days after Council passed it, which is the standard operating procedure for passing new ordinances. Council adopted the emergency version of the ordinance, citing growing concerns about people riding the motorized scooters around town. The ordinance states all motorized scooter riders shall obey the rules of the road applicable to vehicular and pedestrian traffic. Motor scooter operators are not allowed to carry any additional passengers. The ordinance also forbids motorized scooters to be operated in the central business district of Alderwood, which encompasses the area bounded on the south by Franklin Avenue, north on Decatur Avenue, west on Fifth Street and east on Ninth Street. Motorized scooters may also not be ridden on Alderwood Valley Highway or along Central Park. The scooters are also prohibited from any city-installed or city-maintained grass or landscaped areas. Scooters are also prohibited from being operated on sidewalks within the city limits or on any street with a posted speed limit greater than 25 miles per hour. The ordinance has standards, too, for operating motorized scooters. Riders must wear a helmet, have the required light and reflectors, brakes and a muffler. Mufflers are required for every motorized foot scooter operating with an internal combustion engine. The minimum age for operating a scooter in the City of Alderwood, under the provisions of the new ordinance, is 16. The ordinance also requires all scooter dealers to provide buyers with copies of the city's operating regulations. Anyone caught violating the ordinance will face a 250 fine. A police officer may also impound a scooter in addition to issuing a fine. Alderwood City Manager Tom Rockford told Council this ordinance is not only brought about as a result of concerns about operating motorized foot scooters state-wide, but also in the city. \"We have come up with what we feel is a reasonable set of standards,\" said Rockford. Council asked Police Captain Bill Bank about concerns with compliance concerning the implementation of the ordinance. Bank said he would want to issue one warning to riders first before citing them. Councilman John Torch expressed his astonishment that not only Alderwood but other cities around the state are working to implement ordinances regulating scooters. Torch said he felt something as simple as safely operating a scooter should be something parents oversee with their children, not the city. \"Six months ago I would have said this is no problem,\" added Councilman Tom Seeger. \"But this is a problem.\" Seeger said the scooters are not only creating safety concerns for riders but problems with noise and other issues. Assistant City Manager/City Attorney Bruce Rinz said there were some problems with devising an ordinance that addressed city concerns. Rinz said the problem is the state doesn't consider scooters a motorized vehicle. \"It (the ordinance) is more of an attempt to regulate, as far as we can,\" said Rinz. Councilman Jim Sarducci had concerns about scooter operators driving under the influence of alcohol and what the city could do. Bank admitted he wasn't sure what the city could do to people operating the scooters under the influence. \"This is new territory,\" said Bank. Councilwoman Jennie Angel wanted to make sure the city did everything it could to educate the public on the new ordinance. She noted there has been a couple of deaths in the Tri-Cities involving people riding motorized scooters. \"This is very much a safety issue,\" said Angel. \"I think parents are buying them (scooters), just thinking they are a toy.\" The Council voted unanimously to pass the emergency version of the ordinance. Mayor Rex Luthor noted that the penalty portion of the ordinance exceeds the cost of the scooters. \"There is some teeth to this ordinance,\" said Luthor. . John Panni can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or email him at mPanni@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101242766682","Title":"Obituaries","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"8/10/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"DAVID EARL HILEMAN DAVID EARL HILEMAN David Earl Hileman, 59, of Prosser died Saturday, Aug. 7, 2004. He was born Sept. 28, 1944 in Prosser to George and Erma (Hoskinson) Hileman. At 17, he joined the U.S. Navy. He served five cruises on the nuclear powered submarine USS Alexander Hamilton. He was honorably discharged in 1968. He moved to Colorado and became an electrician. In 1972 he married Donna Lorraine Shottenkirk. In 1974 they moved to Prosser. He is survived by his father, George Hileman; and daughters, Kristin Herion and husband, Chris, of Prosser, Katie Gonzalez and husband, Cain, of Benton City. He is also survived by two brothers, Dan and wife, Tonia, of Prosser and Jim and wife, Eileen, of Poulsbo; and a sister, Kathy June and husband, Don, of Prosser. He was preceded in death by his mother, Erma (Hoskinson) Hileman. A memorial service for Mr. Hileman will be held Saturday, Aug. 14, 2004, at 1 p.m. at 68703 W. Ferry Rd. PR NW, Prosser. Jones Funeral Home will conduct funeral arrangements. GUADALUPE Angel Guadalupe Angel, 78, of Mabton passed away Friday, Aug. 6, 2004. Guadalupe was born Dec. 12, 1925 in Rosebud, Texas to Juan and Josephine (Cantu) Angel. As a youth, he worked as a bell boy. He served in the U.S. Army in 1945. He moved to Washington State in the 1940 s, working for Boeing, Hanford and Northwest Glass Co. While at the glass company, Lupe invented an automated mold cleaner. He had an inventive mind that kept him busy. Survivors include his wife of 20 years, Phyllis Angel of Mabton. He is also survived by his ex-wife, Victoria Rocha Angel; and their children, Lilly Angel of Tacoma, Lucio (Donna) Angel of Renton, Guadalupe Angel of Mabton, Ramon Jose (Nellie) Angel of Kent, Jesse Angel of Seattle and Carlos (Irma) Angel of Everett; five brothers, Juan Angel of Mabton, Felix (Louise) Angel of Texas, Albert (Holanda) Carranza of Auburn, Arthur (Mary Ann) Carranza of Texas and Simon (Diane) of Oregon; four sisters, Josephine Rodriguez of Grandview, Minnie (Pete) Alvarado of Mabton, Mary (Max) Gamboa of Alderwood and Virginia Molina of Mabton. He is also survived by five step-sons, Frank (Marge) Galaviz Jr. of Alderwood, Richard Galaviz of Tacoma, Tony (LeAnn) Galaviz of Toppenish, and Steven (Marie) Galaviz and Valentino (Julie) Galaviz, all of Burien; five step-daughters, Diane Castanada of Mabton, Sara Galaviz of Alderwood, Vicky (George) Garza of San Antonio, Texas, Lily (Aurelio) Bermudez of Alderwood and Angie (Dan) Harris of Alderwood; 20 grandchildren; 30 great-grandchildren, 31 step-grandchildren and 34 step-great-grandchildren; and 80 nieces and nephews. He was preceded in death by his mother, Josephine Cantu Carranza; his father, Juan Angel; his step-father, Albert Carranza; an infant daughter; an infant sister; and two brothers, Fernando Angel and Henry Carranza. Viewing was held Monday, Aug. 9, 2004, from 3 to 8 p.m. at Valley Hills Funeral Home Chapel, Alderwood. Recitation of the Rosary was held at 6 p.m. Monday at Valley Hills Funeral Home, Alderwood. Funeral services were held Tuesday, Aug. 10, 2004, at 10 a.m. at Mabton Grace Brethren Church. Burial was held at Mabton City Cemetery. ALICE L. KNIGHT Alice L. Knight, 84, of Alderwood went to be in the loving arms of her heavenly Father Saturday, Aug. 7, 2004, from her home in Alderwood. Alice was born Sept. 30, 1919 in Cowiche, the daughter of Bertha (Haye) and Allen Grant June, who were pioneer homesteaders. Alice received her education in Cowiche. On March 21, 1943 she married Arlie Knight at Yakima Church of God. Following their marriage they made their home in Zillah, Yakima and West Valley, before moving to Alderwood in 1968. Alice cherished time spent with her family. She enjoyed music, baking, sewing, crocheting, writing poetry and picking cherries. After retirement Alice and Arlie delighted in taking several trips to Alaska and Hawaii. Alice was a life-time and active member of the Church of God, where she played the organ for more than 30 years. Alice is survived by her husband, Arlie Knight of Alderwood; five children, Arleta Langdon and husband, Bill, of Grassvalley, Calif., Kerry Allen Knight and wife, Virlene, of Olympia, La Rae Ross and husband, LeRoy, of Alderwood, Dan Knight and wife, Georgeana, of Wapato and Tim Knight of Alderwood; 12 grandchildren; three great-grandchildren; and one sister, Naomi Wagner of Yakima. She was preceded in death by her parents; three brothers; and three sisters. Viewing and visitation will be held Wednesday, Aug. 11, 2004, from 2 to 8 p.m. at Jones Funeral Home, Alderwood. A celebration of life service will be held Thursday, Aug. 12, 2004, at 10 a.m. at Alderwood Church of God. Burial will be held at West Hills Memorial Park in Yakima, Thursday, Aug. 12, 2004, at 2 p.m., under the direction of Jones Funeral Home. Those wishing to honor her memory may contribute to the Alderwood Church of God elevator fund or to Lower Valley Hospice. Memorials may be left at Jones Funeral Home or at the church at the time of service"}
{"Id":"1101242767400","Title":"School crosswalk volunteers needed","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"8/5/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Are you looking for something to do with your spare time? Consider volunteering as a school crosswalk guard. Alderwood School Resource Officer Chico Rodriguez of Harrison Middle School is currently seeking crosswalk volunteers. \"We need persons with time to devote to the safety of children before and after school,\" he explained. People interested in crosswalk guard positions will be asked to help with morning crosswalk duty, from 7 to 9 a.m., or afternoon duty, from 2 to 3:30 p.m., Rodriguez explained. \"We have a critical need for such volunteers,\" he said. Rodriguez said the job is ideal for retired or semi-retired persons or anyone with extra time and a desire to help protect the children of the community. Those interested are encouraged to call Rodriguez at 837-6211"}
{"Id":"1101242786744","Title":"Candidate withdraws from city council consideration","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"8/5/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"The field of candidates for the Alderwood City Council seat vacated earlier this summer by Alex de la Cruz has narrowed by one. Friday, July 30, John Panni withdrew his name from the running. This past Wednesday afternoon, Panni had no comment on why he decided to withdraw from consideration for the city council position. In a letter addressed to Alderwood Mayor Rex Luthor and members of the Alderwood City Council, Panni wrote: \"I saw the opportunity to serve on the Alderwood City Council here recently as a chance to fulfill my personal objectives. But, there are jobs where one can't cross their personal and professional life and I have one of those.\" Panni, who works as a reporter for the Alderwood Daily News in Alderwood, wrote that he has a lot of respect for city council and what each member goes through, adding that he also has a lot of respect for the \"...integrity of the journalism industry.\" \"Personally, I would love to serve the community on the Alderwood City Council, but I can't wear two hats,\" Panni wrote. \"And I happen to like the one I wear now as a journalist for our wonderful community.\" Luthor said of Panni's withdrawal that he appreciates his desire to serve his community. \"He had determined that elected office will not work for him at this time, but I am confident that he will find other ways to assist this community,\" Luthor said. The remaining candidates for the position are Bruce Epps Theresa Hancock, Wade Drysdale, Ermenejildo Rodriguez, Raul Martinez and Carol Stone. Alderwood City Council will interview each of the remaining candidates during a special session set to take place Aug. 16 in the council chambers. Following the public meeting, council members will go into executive session to discuss their decision. The candidate selected to fill the position will then have to seek election to the office next year to finish out the remainder of de la Cruz's four-year term. . Ellie Olmsen can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or e-mail her at eolmstead@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101242786963","Title":"Murray's re-election campaign swings into the Valley Friday","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"8/5/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"\"The mom in tennis shoes,\" who went on to represent Washington state in the U.S. Senate, kicks off her re-election campaign today and tomorrow. U.S. Sen. Patty Murray is scheduled to travel across the state Thursday and Friday to meet with voters. Her itinerary includes stops in Pasco and Yakima. Murray is running for a third term in the U.S. Senate. Her chief rival in the race appears to be GOP candidate George Nethercutt of Spokane. The senior campaign officials for Murray said she will speak to voters during her swing through the state this week about the importance of putting Washington state and America first. Stumping as a strong, independent voice for Washington state's needs, Murray is expected to highlight her shared priorities for job creation, education, protecting Americans' quality of life, improving homeland security and taking care of U.S. troops and veterans. Murray is scheduled to speak at the Tri-Cities Plumbers and Pipefitters Hall in Pasco (1328 Road 28) Friday morning at 9:30 a.m. Her Yakima stop will be at noon on Friday, at VFW Post #379 on the corner of Walnut and Fifth avenues"}
{"Id":"1101242787244","Title":"Obituaries","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"8/5/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"WANDA C WANDA C. GRANT Wanda C. Grant, 87, a long-time Alderwood and Outlook area resident, passed away Wednesday, Aug. 4, 2004, in Yakima. She was born Dec. 2, 1916 in Ekalaka, Mont. to Lonnie and Lola (Sturgill) Halsey. At an early age she with her family moved to Juneton, Idaho, where she received her early education and graduated from high school. Following her graduation the family moved to Outlook. Wanda later attended Simpson Bible College in Seattle, and then returned to Outlook. In 1950 she married Russell Grant at the Halsey family home in Outlook. Following their marriage they made their home in Outlook. Her husband, Russell, died in August 1953 and following his death Wanda made her home in Outlook before moving to Alderwood in 1985. Wanda was a serious Mariner fan. She attended Calvary Baptist Church. Her church family was very special to her. Wanda also cherished many friendships at the Uptown Mobile Court. She was a very devoted mother and grandmother. She is survived by her son, Donald Grant and wife, RoeJean, of Sammamish; her grandchildren, Russell, Adam and Rebecca Treat, Meghan and Andrew Grant; one sister, Helen Meyer and husband, James, of Yakima; and numerous nieces and nephews including Joanne Diegel of Kent. She was preceded in death by her parents; her husband, Russell Grant, in 1953; one daughter, Marjean Gibson, in 1995; and one brother, Dell Halsey, in 1954. Viewing will be held Friday, Aug. 6, 2004, from 3 until 7 p.m. at Jones Funeral Home, Alderwood, followed by a time of fellowship for friends and family at the Calvary Baptist Church, at 908 Woodward, Alderwood. Funeral services will be held Saturday, Aug. 7, 2004, at 9:30 a.m. at Jones Funeral Home, Alderwood. Burial will be held at 3:30 p.m. at Normal Hill Cemetery in Juneton, Idaho, under the direction of Jones Funeral Home, Alderwood"}
{"Id":"1101242787494","Title":"Guest Editorial","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"8/4/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"SHELDON RICHMAN Ever since the attacks of 9/11, unsanctioned alternative explanations of what happened and why have been in ample supply. What are the American people to make of these explanations? That depends on the alternative offered. My purpose here is not to lend credence to any of them, but rather to examine the attitude that officialdom expects of us. According to the opinion molders inside and outside the government, we regular people are supposed to scoff, with melodramatic flourish if possible, at any suggestion that the Official Version of events is, shall we say, incomplete. The implied principle is that the government and the mainstream media couldn't possibly have gotten things wrong, either intentionally or inadvertently. That's the principle I wish to question. Governments regularly get things wrong, either because their knowledge is imperfect or because they have an interest in getting them wrong. I certainly accept the maxim that the burden of proof rests on the one offering an assertion. Without that maxim, we are at the mercy of any arbitrary claim that comes down the pike. Until you get an answer to the question \"What's your evidence?\" you have no obligation to consider the assertion at all. Most people who proffer conspiracy theories are eager to offer what in their eyes constitutes evidence. It may turn out to be bad evidence, but at least they see their responsibilities. They give the rest of us something to grab hold of, scrutinize, chew over, and accept or discard as we see fit. That's more than we can say for the Loyal Order of Defenders of the Official Version of Things. They rarely deign to rebut the evidence provided by the devotees of alternative versions, for to do so would be to give those versions attention; and to do that would be to suggest they are worthy of attention. That, the Loyal Defenders cannot afford to do. Better to portray anyone who entertains a nonstandard, unsanctioned theory as a lunatic. What do the Loyal Defenders offer in behalf of the Official Version? Not very much. Yes, bipartisan blue-ribbon commissions are often impaneled, comprising prominent members of the power establishment. Yet the last thing anyone expects of such commissions is a bombshell implicating high officeholders in gross negligence or malfeasance. Instead there is the obligatory boilerplate about the pointlessness of recrimination. The 9/11 commission is a good example. I've never understood why recrimination is considered pointless. This arrangement looks suspiciously like a rigged game, and it should concern anyone who worries about the threat to liberty from power. As things are now set up, government is in a fine position to get away with murder and assorted lesser crimes. All it need do is hand down its exculpatory account, which will be dutifully conveyed by the news media, and have its agents impugn the motives or sanity of dissenters. That will be enough to keep most respectable people away. We are asked, in other words, to put our trust in the state. But no collection of men is less deserving of trust than the state. A casual look at its history is all that is necessary to substantiate that claim. States have been committing horrendous crimes on a mass scale for ages. \"Democratic\" states are not exempt from that judgment. The U.S. government has much to answer for, from the Trail of Tears in 1838 to Atlanta in 1864 to the Japanese internment in 1942 to Ruby Ridge in 1992 to Waco in 1993. And that's only some of its domestic offenses. We could bring up the Philippines, Dresden, Tokyo, Hiroshima, Nagasaki, Beirut, and others. I am not saying that any particular conspiracy theory is accurate. All I am saying is that governments ought to be held to the same standard of proof as everyone else. Sheldon Richman is senior fellow at The Future of Freedom Foundation (www.fff.org), author of Tethered Citizens: Time to Repeal the Welfare State, and editor of The Freeman magazine"}
{"Id":"1101242787729","Title":"Grandview City Council Briefs","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"8/3/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"1-Column Council approves mutual aid agreement GRANDVIEW - Monday night, Grandview City Council approved a mutual aid agreement with the Alderwood Valley Office of Emergency Management. The agreement brings all of the cities, fire districts and Alderwood County together under one mutual aid agreement that is coordinated by the Alderwood Valley Office of Emergency Management. Council receives update on cable TV upgrade GRANDVIEW - Monday night, Grandview City Administrator Jim Sewell talked to members of Council about the cable television upgrades being made by Charter Communications. Sewell reported that upgrades were originally scheduled to be completed by the end of the year, and at this point Charter has all of the underground work complete and is working on hanging cable from PP&L power poles throughout the community. Sewell said the company is hoping to begin phasing in upgraded connections as early as October. Council approves fencing ordinance GRANDVIEW - People living in Grandview will now have to apply for a building permit before they can install a fence. Monday night, Grandview City Council approved a new fencing ordinance that sets in place a variety of regulations when it comes to the installation of a new fence. The regulations include that the fence can not be more than six feet tall unless a special use permit is granted and outlines material that can not be used to construct a fence, such as barbed wire, plywood, pallets, cardboard and used tires. The new ordinance will go into effect Aug. 9. Council outlaws parking area near middle school GRANDVIEW - Monday night, Grandview City Council voted to eliminate parking on West Second Street in front of Grandview Middle School. Parking will be eliminated for 60 feet along the south side of Second Street, from the intersection of Hillcrest west, and 116 feet of parking will be eliminated on the north side of the street from Hillcrest west. County auditor explains new voting system GRANDVIEW - Alderwood County Auditor Corky Mattingly talked to members of Grandview City Council about the new electronic voting system that will be used in Alderwood County during this fall's general election. She showed one of the electronic voting mechanisms to members of the council, showing them how the system will work. She pointed out the system does not use a touch screen, instead people will use a rotary dial to cast their vote. Grandview Council approves rezone application GRANDVIEW - Monday night, Grandview City Council approved the rezone of nearly five acres of property located off of West Fifth Street. The request for re-zoning was made by Dr. Fred Boboth. Boboth requested the property be rezoned from AF1 agriculture to R-1 single family residential"}
{"Id":"1101242788244","Title":"G'view Council votes to spend $14,000 on lighting upgrades","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"8/3/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"GRANDVIEW - The lighting situation at the Grandview library has been a topic of conversation among city officials since Grandview City Council held a joint meeting with the library board in April. Monday night, Council voted to allot more than 14,000 to help alleviate lighting concerns at both Blehyl Community Library and the Grandview Police Department. Council waited several months to approve funding for the improvement project to see if the project would qualify for a state assistance program. City Administrator Jim Sewell told Council Monday night that the project did not qualify for the program, noting that the dollar value to qualify for the program was higher than the cost of both the library and the police department projects combined. Sewell told Council that after receiving word that the lighting improvement project didn't qualify for the state assistance program, he contacted PP&L to see if there was anything the city could do to alleviate the lighting situation in both buildings. Sewell explained that PP&L was willing to offer the city a rebate if they retrofitted the buildings with more energy-efficient lighting. Sewell told Council the total cost of retrofitting the police department and the library would be 14,273, which includes more than 5,000 in rebates from PP&L. He added that with the energy efficient fixtures the city should save more than 3,000 a year lighting the library and more than 5,000 a year lighting the police department. He noted that the overall savings means the city will see a return on their investment in 21 months. \"Then the savings will go on,\" Sewell said. \"The savings will continue.\" In a memorandum to Council members, Sewell outlined that the retro-fitting program will include replacing all of the critical parts of the existing light fixtures, such as sockets, wire and ballasts and replacing them with state-of-the-art equipment. He added that the current 9,000 hour fluorescent bulbs will be replaced with thinner 20,000 hour bulbs. Sewell explained that the funds to pay for the lighting upgrade will come from 71,000 in unanticipated revenue that is available for one-time capital expenditures. Since finding out about the revenue in June, Council has voted to spend 11,000 on improvements to the Dykstra Park Pathway and 15,500 for architectural services for the aquatic center proposal. The need for lighting improvements at the library was discussed when City Council members sat down with members of the library board in April. At that time Librarian Linda Dunham passed around a box that contained a burned ballast, noting that the piece of lighting equipment had started smoking one day and could have caused a fire if it hadn't occurred during regular business hours. Work on upgrading lighting at the library and the police department is scheduled to begin sometime this fall. . Ellie Olmsen can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or e-mail her at eolmstead@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101242788947","Title":"Federal grant will upgrade Mabton firefighting gear","Author":"Jamie Smart","Time":"7/29/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"MABTON - New firefighting equipment and portable radios for use in the field are among the items the Mabton Volunteer Fire Department will be purchasing with a 25,968 Department of Homeland Security Assistance to Firefighters Grant. \"We're excited to learn Mabton's fire department has received the grant,\" said Mayor David Conradt. \"I'm sure they (the firemen) will be using the money for much needed protective equipment,\" he said. In fact, that is exactly what the department plans to do with the windfall, said Mabton Volunteer Fire Chief Bill Roettger. Roettger, who applied for the funds from the Homeland Security's web site, was pleased to learn that U.S. Congressman Doc Hastings had announced this past Monday that Mabton was among the thousands of the nation's small fire departments to receive federal assistance. \"We're happy to be getting the money in one lump sum,\" Roettger said. \"It would take us a long time to raise the funds for the safety equipment we need for the safety of our volunteers,\" he said. Roettger said the 21-person Mabton department will be using the money to purchase six self-contained breathing apparatus units, which cost about 4,000 each. \"We also plan to buy three portable radios and four pagers for use in the field to help firefighters stay in contact at fire scenes,\" he explained. All told, Congress provided 744 million for the Assistance to Firefighters grants this year, according to Hastings. He said the grant money can be used for such safety issues as training, equipment, and fire station and facility modifications. Roettger said he is glad he took the time to seek the federal grant via the Internet. \"We took a shot hoping we would get a piece of the pie,\" he said. \"And it paid off.\" Roettger said the City of Mabton will be kicking in a portion of the necessary funds to fully fund the department's improvement project. While the bulk of the money will be coming from the grant, the city will be contributing more than 3,000, he explained. . Jamie Smart can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or you can e-mail her at jhart@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101242808401","Title":"Briefs","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"7/28/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"1-Column Children s theater performance set for this Friday Community residents are invited to view \"Funny Sunny Fairy Tales\" this coming Friday, July 30. The 7 p.m. performance at the Alderwood High School auditorium will be staged by a children's theatrical group, sponsored by the Alderwood Parks and Recreation Department. This year's play was written and is being directed by Laura Berkompas, a summer parks and rec staff member. Admission to Friday's on-stage production is free. The play is approximately 30 minutes long. Theater-goers are invited to stay after the presentation and visit with cast and crew while enjoying refreshments. Cal Ripken Baseball meeting this Wednesday The Alderwood area Cal Ripken Baseball group will be holding a parent meeting this coming Wednesday, at the Denny Blaine technology building on Custer Avenue. At the July 28, 6:30 p.m. meeting an election will be held to select the 2004-05 board of directors. Miller re-appointed to Board of Adjustment Board Retired Alderwood teacher Craig Miller was re-appointed to the Alderwood Board of Adjustment, per Mayor Rex Luthor's recommendation during Monday night's meeting Alderwood City Council meeting. Miller has previously served on the city advisory board"}
{"Id":"1101242808698","Title":"Washington state politicians respond to convention remarks","Author":"John Panni","Time":"7/28/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Fourth District United States Congressman Doc Hastings and Eighth District United States Congresswoman Jennifer Dunn were selected to lead the Republican response in Washington state to the opening day of the Democratic National Convention in Boston. Dunn opened Tuesday afternoon's teleconference by disputing claims from Democrat presidential candidate John Kerry about how this week's Democratic National Convention would focus on him and not President Bush. \"We really have not seen a lot of discussion about Sen. Kerry and his background,\" said Dunn. Dunn said she would like to see Democrats let the public know more about Kerry as opposed to \"Bush bashing.\" Dunn added that the message being delivered by Democrats at their national convention hasn't been an optimistic one, so far. Dunn addressed some comments about health care and prescription benefits that Kerry made right before the convention. Dunn commented Kerry is using fear tactics in his campaign to scare voters, in particular senior citizens, about the Bush health care plan. Dunn said Bush's health care plan will work. She particulary cited the need for the new prescription benefit card that is now available. \"The fear campaign is not a good one for him to put out there,\" said Dunn. Dunn also commented on how the President's tax relief efforts have benefited Washington residents. She said 2.3 million taxpayers in Washington are benefiting from the President's tax cut packages. She also pointed out 780,000 married couples in Washington are benefiting from the tax relief measures the President put into place. Unemployment in Washington has also dramatically dropped from 7.7 percent to 6.1 percent, she said. Dunn said Bush has also made it a priority to increase funding for programs, such as education, which has seen a 49 percent increase in funding under the Bush administration. The budget for homeland security has tripled and funding for providing medical care for veterans has been increased by 40 percent. Dunn said during the forthcoming budget, Washington veterans will see a 6 percent increase in funding for health care in Washington state, alone. Dunn said she would like to see the Kerry camp acknowledge some of the accomplishments of the President. Hastings said he wants to see Democrats talk more about Kerry's record. Hastings pointed out Sen. Kerry has voted in the past to cut funding for the military, intelligence and to promote higher taxes. Hastings also highlighted some of the contradictions in the Kerry campaign, noting Kerry has said he fully supports funding the recommendations of the Sept. 11 commission. \"His track record has been to cut our intelligence spending,\" said Hastings. Hastings said Bush needs to be acknowledged for his pro-growth stance that has helped boost the economy. Hastings said Bush's stance has helped promote the economy in Washington state, both from the agriculture and industrial stand points. Hastings also commented on a remark from former President Bill Clinton on the opening night of the Democratic convention. Clinton, said Hastings, remarked Bush has squandered the budget surplus he left the Republican President. Hastings, who was voted to office during Clinton's first term, said none of Clinton's budgets were balanced. Hastings said it was through a cooperative effort that Clinton was able to build a surplus. But, Hastings said, many people don't realize as Clinton was leaving office the economy was headed towards a recession. \"Were it not for the President's (Bush) tax relief, we might have been in a deeper recession,\" said Hastings. Hastings said the President hasn't squandered the surplus, despite the Democrats claim. Hastings said the President spent the money on needed tax breaks for Americans. The money was also spent on improving national security at home and abroad after the unexpected attacks on Sept. 11, said Hastings"}
{"Id":"1101242808932","Title":"Water shortage exists in Mabton","Author":"Jamie Smart","Time":"7/28/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"MABTON - As the water pressure in Mabton continues to drop, the tempers in the small community are on the rise. Citizens gathered at Mabton City Hall Tuesday night to urge the Council to cite those citizens not adhering to the recently mandated water conservation efforts. The city initiated a city-wide water conservation program in early July when citizens began complaining of serious drops in water pressure. Citizens were mailed notices urging them to limit irrigating their lawns and other outside water use to odd/even days. As part of the city's conservation effort, the public water crews began shutting off the city's water supply between the hours of 11:30 p.m. and 3:30 a.m. to allow the wells to refill. City officials issued the conservation alert again in mid- July, again asking residents to restrict their water use in order to give the city an opportunity to provide enough water for drinking and washing. But as citizens reported last night, there are still too many people not paying attention to the conservation need. While most citizens attending Tuesday night's council meeting were in favor of the city's conservation effort, others were concerned that some residents don't understand the need for curtailing water use. In addition to airing concerns about the health and safety hazards, the water shortage and shut-off, residents complained that proper notice hasn't been provided to citizens. \"The notice was mailed in English. I think it needed to be mailed out in Spanish,\" said Albert Vasquez of Fifth Street in North Mabton. With nearly 80 percent of Mabton's population of Hispanic descent, Vasquez felt most people weren't complying with the conservation effort because they couldn't read the city's notice. \"Some may not have even received it,\" he added. They definitely don't understand why there is no water at the tap in the middle of the night, according to Elsie Sanchez, a South Mabton resident. Sanchez, who lives on Pine Street, said her concerns with the water shortage deal with health and safety issues. \"Plus, there is no consistency about when the water is shut off and when it is turned back on,\" she told the Council. Sanchez said she had researched how other towns handled water shortages \"But none I found resorted to turning the water off after midnight,\" she said. \"I think this method is endangering people's health and is a fire risk,\" Sanchez said. She cited instances when she had found her water turned off as early as 11 p.m. and not turned back on until well after 3:30 a.m. \"Not all of us work 8 to 5,\" Sanchez said. \"What are the hours the water is to be turned off and why weren't we given better notice of the shut-offs?,\" she asked. Saying the city had looked hard at what measures to take in view of the city wells depleted water supplies, Mabton Mayor David Conradt said the Council chose the shut-off as a stop gap emergency measure. \"We sent out notices to the residents asking them to voluntarily conserve water during this emergency,\" said Conradt. \"But we can't force people to stop watering their lawns.\" Not everyone is observing the odd-even water days, noted Linda Palomarez of Fern Avenue in South Mabton. Saying her children are now calling her the water police, Palomarez is worried that not everyone in town is taking the current water shortage seriously. \"A lot of people don't understand about the city's recent action to cut off city water after midnight,\" Palomarez said. Since July 2, the Mabton city wells have been shut off after 11 p.m. to allowed the wells to replenish, a step the council took in an effort to save the city wells' booster pumps. The city, which is in the process of seeking state and federal funds to drill a new city well, noticed a dramatic drop in water pressure in late June, when the first hot spell hit the Valley. Mabton city crews and engineers have tried several methods of elevating and maintaining the water pressure to no avail, explained Conradt. \"Our booster pumps can't work fast enough to replenish the system,\" he said. Mabton has seen a drop in the aquifer during the past several years and is in the process of seeking the approval of the Water Conservancy Board of Yakima for permission to drill a new well. Conradt said in the meantime, the Council is seeking funds to build a new well, which is expected to cost more than 1 million dollars. \"The Mabton aquifers continue to drop so we will have to drill a deeper well shaft,\" he told the citizens. Conradt said even if the city isn't able to get a grant to dig the well, it will be seeking a loan to get the well dug. \"We will have a new well by next spring,\" he said. Conradt said Mabton engineers continue to meet with the conservancy board to explain Mabton's need for a new well, which is expected to cost between 1.2 to 1.3 million to drill, and install. In the meantime, residents can expect to have the water emergency continue as it is until Valley temperatures begin to drop, lessening the demands on the city wells. Also attending Tuesday's meeting was Alderwood County Commissioner Tom Camay of Toppenish, who commended the Council and the citizens for their patience during the current water crisis. He said he traveled to Mabton to see how desperate the water situation is and to offer the support of the Alderwood County Commission when the city's grant request comes before it"}
{"Id":"1101242809166","Title":"Alderwood City Council Briefs","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"7/27/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"1-Column Alderwood City Council approves transportation plan Taking the recommendation of the Alderwood Planning Commission, the Alderwood City Council approved the 22 projects on its new six-year transportation plan. The plan, which includes an extensive study of the Alderwood Valley Highway business corridor, was approved following a short public hearing. Hearing no comments from the citizens, the Council approved the plan, which last week was reviewed by the Planning Commission. According to City Engineer Jim Bridges, the plan calls for the Alderwood Valley Highway study, as well as moving ahead on the reconstruction of South First Street and 20 other projects. Bridges said a number of the original 26 projects in the plan have been reclassified or completed. He told the Council he has allowed for flexibility in the plan in order to administer projects as funds become available. Topping the 2005-2010 list is the Alderwood Valley Highway improvement project from east to west city limits, the South First Street reconstruction project, from I-82 to Lincoln Avenue, and the citywide intersection study, as well as the Washout Road project from North Avenue to north city limits. Council sets record time In a record 20 minutes, the Alderwood City Council dispensed with the items on its agenda Monday night. Meeting at just a few minutes past 7 p.m., the Council approved a consent agenda, set procedures and a date to interview prospective candidates for the Council, approved its six-year transportation plan and heard from department heads and fellow councilmen in a swift 20 minutes. The Council excused itself for a scant 30-minute executive session, coming back at 7:45 to adjourn for the evening. No action was taken as a result of the executive session. Council approves four liquor license renewals Monday The Alderwood City Council gave it approval to four liquor license renewal requests as a part of its consent agenda Monday night. Renewals were approved for the Alderwood Safeway Store, El Conquistador, Alderwood Mini Mart and Valley Lanes. Block party street closures approved The Alderwood City Council approved street closures for the community's National Night Out block parties to be held Tuesday, Aug. 3, throughout the city. The Council, which won't meet again until Aug. 9, was invited to attend the Lower Valley National Night Out kick-off celebration Monday, Aug. 2. Alderwood is host of the 2004 Lower Valley event, said Alderwood Mayor Rex Luthor. The kick-off event will be held at the Lower Valley Law and Justice Center from 5 to 8 p.m. Luthor encouraged the Council members to be on hand for the community barbecue and evening of entertainment, information fair and games, all planned as part of the evening, under the direction of Chico Rodriguez and his NNO committee"}
{"Id":"1101242809401","Title":"Vice President stumps for Rossi","Author":"John Panni","Time":"7/27/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"KENNEWICK - As the Democratic National Convention was preparing to open its nearly week long convention of naming a candidate to unseat President George W. Bush, in Boston, Vice President Dick Cheney was in the Tri-Cities Monday afternoon stumping for Washington Republican gubernatorial candidate Dino Rossi. Cheney, the man who made many of the early crucial decisions in the wake of the Sept. 11 attacks, was the featured attraction at a 250 per plate luncheon at the Three Rivers Convention Center in Kennewick. The vice president, who was accompanied by his wife, Lynne, outlined why the Republican party would best be suited to lead the nation for the next four years while mixing in a unique political sense of humor. The vice president made a strong point of how important the Pacific Northwest will be in this year's election. The Bush-Cheney ticket beat the Al Gore campaign in 28 of Washington state's 39 counties. Bush-Cheney easily won heavily Republican led Benton and Yakima counties, collecting more than 75,000 votes in the two counties. Bush-Cheney also handily won Spokane County in Eastern Washington, picking up 81,000 votes. But Gore took Washington state with 1.12 million votes compared to the Bush ticket, which garnered just over 1 million votes. Cheney, 63, grew up in Wyoming, where he met his wife. She recounted for the capacity audience, estimated in the neighborhood of 450 people, how she first came across the future politician at the age of 14 when he had an after-school janitors job. \"I didn't pay much attention to him at first,\" Mrs. Cheney said, which drew an uproar of laughter from the audience. Mrs. Cheney talked about the growth of her husband into the politician he is today. Vice President Cheney's political career began in the late 1960s when he served under President Richard Nixon. He later served as the deputy assistant and chief of staff under President Gerald Ford. In 1977, Cheney was elected congressman for Wyoming, being re-elected five times. From March 1989 to January 1993, Cheney served as the Secretary of Defense, leading military campaigns in Desert Storm and Operation Just Cause in Panama. But his wife was most proud of the efforts of her husband on one of the most prolific days in American history. Lynne, who was in the emergency bunker with the vice president on Sept. 11, told the audience of how her husband rose to the occasion when the country was under attack by terrorists. \"I saw how totally committed he was to our President and this nation,\" she said. Before turning the spotlight over to her husband, Mrs. Cheney encouraged those in attendance to keep the same Republican party in the White House this fall. \"He (President Bush) has been a magnificent leader the past three-and-a-half years,\" she said. \"And if you permit me to say so, the vice president is no slouch, either.\" \"It is great to come back to the state of Washington,\" the Vice President said in taking the podium. \"The President and I are grateful for our supporters in Washington. This year, Washington is going to be part of the nation-wide victory.\" The Vice President recounted for the audience he had been to the Tri-Cities before entering politics. Cheney said 50 years ago this summer he can remember coming to a baseball tournament in Richland as a youngster. Cheney carried an upbeat mood as he talked about the upcoming battles with Democratic presidential candidate John Kerry and his running mate, John Edwards. Cheney said he contacted Edwards after it was announced he would be on the Democratic ticket and had a friendly conversation. The vice president pointed out to the audience that many say Edwards was picked for his good looks and charm. \"How do you think I got this job?\" joked Cheney. Cheney then turned his attention to Rossi, who is the forerunner for the governor's mansion in Washington. \"Dino Rossi knows exactly what people need in the state of Washington,\" said Cheney. \"We are here today to make absolutely sure Dino Rossi is the next governor of Washington.\" Cheney praised Rossi for the common sense approach he feels the gubernatorial candidate will bring to the governor's mansion, which hasn't been filled by a Republican for the past two decades. Cheney said he feels Rossi has solid direction in bringing new jobs to Washington, improving health care and addressing other issues concerning residents. \"Dino's campaign is based on strong convictions,\" said Cheney. \"Dino Rossi is an outstanding candidate. He is going to be a great governor.\" The Vice President then turned his attention to some of the issues facing the Bush-Cheney campaign. Cheney said the country is facing a great threat from abroad, comparing the terrorist network that led the Sept. 11 attacks to that of the enemy axis during World War II. \"What this enemy wants is to do away with democracy,\" said Cheney. \"This is not an enemy you can reason with.\" Cheney said it is important to keep Bush in office because he knows the decisions that will have to be made to keep the country safe. The Vice President then fielded some questions from the audience. One audience member asked how safety has improved in the country since Sept. 11. Cheney said he is in the process of reading the entire Sept. 11 committee report, but said the President is anxious to move quickly on those recommendations. Cheney gave as one example of how safety has improved is the meetings between the FBI and CIA that take place five days per week at 8:30 a.m. with President Bush. Cheney said the communication between those two organizations has improved greatly. Cheney said before, the two agencies never communicated because it wasn't the desire of the government to have the CIA involved in domestic matters. The Vice President also fielded a question on his health. When the president first took office, Cheney suffered a series of heart problems. Cheney just recently completed his annual health examine. \"They watch me very carefully,\" said Cheney. \"They just certified me for another 30,000 miles.\" One audience member had a question on what Republicans can do to ensure Bush-Cheney gets re-elected. \"It is important for people to understand the significance of the decisions we are going to make,\" said Cheney. Cheney said it is important to get the word out to people to vote. \"It is really no time for anyone who cares about the country to sit out,\" said Cheney. Cheney encouraged people to vote, become involved, because the decision made this fall will affect history for years to come. \"With your help Nov. 2 is going to be a great Republican day in Washington state and across the nation,\" said the Vice President"}
{"Id":"1101242809682","Title":"Selection of new city councilman scheduled for Aug. 16","Author":"Jamie Smart","Time":"7/27/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"The seven civic-minded candidates who have stepped forward to claim a Alderwood City Council vacancy will have just 10 minutes to impress the Council. The procedure for the candidate selection was outlined during last night's regular city council meeting. While eight people have submitted applications for the spot left vacant by Councilman Alex de la Cruz last month, only seven met last Friday's deadline, according to Alderwood Mayor Rex Luthor. Magali Betker, who last year filed for election to the council, failed to meet Friday's deadline, disqualifying her as a prospective candidate, Luthor said. In the meantime, the eligible Council candidates can look forward to meeting with the City Council Monday, Aug. 16, in a special session. The candidates' names will be put into a hat and drawn at random for the order of appearance before the Council, Luthor said. Each candidate will then be given 10 minutes to tell the Council why they should be selected to fill the seat vacated by de la Cruz. The City Council will then adjourn into an executive session following the candidates' interviews to make their decision, Luthor explained. Seeking the seat left vacant by the 22-year old de la Cruz, who has relocated due to his job, are Bruce Epps, Theresa Hancock, Wade Drysdale, Ermenejildo Rodriguez, Raul Martinez, John Panni and Carol Stone. The candidate chosen to take the seat on the Council will have to seek election to the office next year to fill out the remainder of de la Cruz's four-year term. It is expected that the Council will make its decision that evening, he added. If not, the process may begin over, Luthor said"}
{"Id":"1101242809916","Title":"Seven seek de la Cruz's vacated city council seat","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"7/26/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Community activism is alive and well in Alderwood. Seven local residents met last Friday's deadline in submitting their applications to be chosen as Alex de la Cruz's replacement on the Alderwood City Council. The 22-year-old de la Cruz, elected just last year to his first term on the Council, abruptly resigned in early July when he was offered a job promotion in Colorado by the management of the KFC/A&W chain. Seeking the now vacated Council seat are Bruce Epps, Theresa Hancock, Wade Drysdale, Ermenejildo Rodriguez, Raul Martinez, John Panni and Carol Stone. The seven Alderwood hopefuls will make oral presentations at a future City Council meeting, and will participate in a question-and-answer session with the public. Following that, the six remaining City Council members will select de la Cruz's replacement. Whoever is named to succeed him will have to run for office next year if they intend on retaining the seat. Epps, who has been employed as the facilities foreman for the Alderwood Housing Authority since 1995, unsuccessfully campaigned for the City Council in 2001. He lost a tight race against incumbent Tom Seeger that year. In submitting his application for the vacated seat, Epps said he wants to take the city in a different spending direction. \"I don't have a personal agenda,\" he wrote in his application. \"I've been in private business and government, so I know both sides of the street. \"I've been responsible for government funds, always with a clean audit, so I understand how a lot of the spending works and how the funds cannot be co-mingled,\" he said. Hancock, a Alderwood High School graduate, is the owner and operator of The Funny Farm, which also serves as a contract liquor store. A past member of Gov. Gary Locke's Retail Liquor Task Force, Hancock said the experience and talents she would bring to the City Council include being a life-long resident of Alderwood and a small business owner. \"I am open-minded and able to work by consensus,\" she added on her written application. Drysdale has been a resident of Alderwood since 1929, when he was a fourth grader. His list of accomplishments include earning a Bachelor of Science degree in business administration from the University of Oregon. In his application he also lists having attended New York University, Oregon State University, the University of Nebraska and Central Washington University. He said early in his career he was employed as a caseworker for the state in its public assistance division. Later in life, Drysdale has been active in real estate sales, rentals and various bail bonds services. Rodriguez is currently employed as a clerk for Eastway Video. Prior to May of this year, he worked at his father's auto body repair shop in Alderwood. A Washington State University alumnus who majored in psychology, Rodriguez said he wants to serve on the City Council because he enjoys \"...communicating and connecting with other individuals and working in politics. \"Also, I've been fortunate enough to work with others in different realms of life, and I would like for this opportunity to be my stepping stone to work with other individuals on a larger scale of politics, from the county to the international level,\" Rodriguez wrote in his application. Martinez has been a member of the Alderwood Planning Commission for the past four years. He is employed as a supervisor for Framatome-ANP Inc. in Richland, responsible for the firm's quality surveillance department. A University of Phoenix on-line graduate, with a Bachelor of Science degree in business management, Martinez said he wants to serve on the City Council because he is deeply interested in the future of the city. \"I believe that the knowledge and experience I can offer this position will allow me to make a positive contribution,\" Martinez said. Martinez said one of the most important talents he brings to the Council is his ability to work well with others, \"...but also having the fortitude to remain independent and make the tough decision when needed.\" A 1990 Alderwood High grad, Panni is a journalist for the Alderwood Daily News in Alderwood. Formerly the co-chairman for the Lower Alderwood Valley Rural Enterprise Community's Housing Task Force, Panni said being a life-long resident of Alderwood he knows the issues the community faces and how Alderwood has grown and changed over the years. \"The knowledge I have and the contacts I have at my disposal would be a great asset towards the betterment of the community,\" Panni said in his application. \"I don't have any great answers as to why I want to serve on the Alderwood City Council. Simply put, I know I won't change the world or Alderwood at the snap of my fingers,\" he related in his application. \"What I do hope is that I can do enough for the community to make it a better place.\" Stone, a 1974 Alderwood High grad, said she wants to serve the citizens of Alderwood as their voice in city government. She promotes being fiscally responsible with the resources at-hand, and wants \"...to help our city grow, prosper, better itself by always trying my best to do what is in the best interest of all Alderwood citizens.\" In listing her assets, Stone said she works and communicates well with others, is a good organizer and is committed. \"I am an independent person who likes solving problems, and I am an optimist,\" Stone said"}
{"Id":"1101242810369","Title":"Voters' choice initiative qualifies for Nov. ballot","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"7/23/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"A people's initiative demanding voters be given a choice of candidates for partisan offices has received enough signatures to be placed on the 2004 General ballot. Washington Secretary of State Sam Reed announced Thursday that Initiative I-872 has sufficient valid signatures to qualify for a spot on the statewide ballot in November. According to election workers, a check of petition signatures submitted in support of the proposal has shown that the measure meets constitutional requirements for a minimum of 197,734 valid voter signatures. The measure will appear on the 2004 General Election Ballot. The official ballot summary on Initiative I-872 reads, This measure proposes a new system for conducting primaries for partisan offices. This proposal continues current practice of permitting voters to vote for any candidate for any office in primary and general elections, without limitation based on party. The two \"top\" candidates with the most votes in the primary advance to the general election. Candidates continue to designate their party. It becomes effective only if the court decision invalidating the traditional blanket primary becomes final. Sponsors of I-872 submitted a total of 308,402 petition signatures to the Secretary of State. Election workers determined that the petition contained 258,513 valid signatures - 60,779 more than the required minimum. Signatures are invalid if the signer is not a registered voter or if he or she signed more than once. Reed said the petition was checked using the \"random sample\" process authorized by state law. Under the process, a statistically valid percentage of the signatures are selected at random and checked against voter registration records"}
{"Id":"1101242810619","Title":"Alderwood Civil Service Commission amends lay-off rules for fire department","Author":"Mel Sacher","Time":"7/22/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"The Alderwood Civil Service Commission last night changed the rules to how a personnel reduction will be handled by the Alderwood Fire Department. Commissioners Rey Pascua and Mike Hughes cast their votes in favor of making the changes to the rules. The third Alderwood commissioner didn't arrive at Wednesday's meeting until after the vote was taken. According to City Attorney Bruce Rinz, there was question as to the language of the rules dealing with lay-offs at the Alderwood Civil Service Commission's last meeting in December. Rinz said because of budget constraints last December the city was forced to eliminate the deputy chief position in the fire department. \"This brought up the question, what happens under civil service rules?,\" said Rinz. He said the language of rule 14, which deals with laying off employees, has been described as murky. After working with Lloyd Hazzard, Adam Dent and Bud Jones of the fire department, a revision was written which will help clarify the rule, said Rinz, who added that an example is also included. The rule now states that in cases of lay-off, temporary employees will be laid-off first. Among regular employees, the least senior employee will be reduced in rank to the next lower classification. The person in that classification will be reduced in rank to a lower position until the person with the least seniority in the lowest rank is laid off. Written into the rule as an example, said Rinz, is that if the position to be reduced is battalion chief, the least senior battalion chief will be reduced in rank to captain. The captain with the least seniority will be reduced in rank to firefighter and the firefighter with the least seniority will be laid-off. Rinz said the firefighter who is laid-off will be added to a re-employment list, which will be valid for two years. Originally, the rule dealing with re-hiring said that employees would be able to return to work if their certifications were kept up to date, but Rinz said there is a problem with that since when an employee is laid off they lose their ability to maintain certification. Instead, the rule reads that the employee will have to acquire the certifications within six months, or a time approved by the city manager, when hired back. Kunker said in some cases there are tests that are only held every few months and an employee could potentially miss the date of the test depending on when they are re-hired. An employee would also be required to pass a physical agility test. With the changes to the civil service rules, the Commission decided to wait until the next meeting to approve the revisited general rules and regulations of the Civil Service Commission. The Commission did approve changing its meeting time to the second Wednesday of every month, at 5 p.m. at the Alderwood Law and Justice Center. At last night's meeting the commissioners also approved the Alderwood Police Department's request for an exam for lateral and entry level patrol officers. \"We're anticipating possible openings within the next month or two,\" said Alderwood Police Chief Ted Mana. \"We would like to have a list available if we choose to fill those positions,\" he added. \"We do not currently have an active list.\" The commissioners voted unanimously in favor of holding testing. The civil service exam for the Alderwood Police Department will be held Saturday, Aug. 28. Sign-ins will begin at 6:30 a.m. at Harrison Middle School with the physical agility testing beginning at 7 a.m. The oral boards will be held at the Alderwood Law and Justice Center that afternoon"}
{"Id":"1101242830682","Title":"Port of Alderwood Briefs","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"7/20/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"1-Column Chamber's 3-on-3 tournament gains Port support The Alderwood Summer Jam 3-on-3 Basketball Tournament, set for the weekend of July 24, has received a substantial contribution from the Alderwood Port Commission. The commissioners voted June 21 to donate 2,000 to the two-day tournament, annually sponsored by the Alderwood Chamber of Commerce. This is the second year the Port Commission has supported the tourney, which will be held at the Mid Valley Mall parking lot in Alderwood. Vacated house to be moved from Port property A vacated house on Alderwood Port District property north of Alexander Road will be removed by the Downing Construction Company of Alderwood. The house, which was vacated last year after being deemed unsafe, will be moved from the North McLean Road site by Darrell Downing's crews. The Alderwood contractor has agreed to fill in the building's basement and level the area, making it suitable for future industrial needs, explained Amber Hansen, Port manager. Hansen said the Port had originally considered burning it until Downing suggested moving the building. The McLean property is located on a part of the 38 acres of Port property which Port commissioners hope will soon be annexed into the city limits, Hansen added"}
{"Id":"1101242831682","Title":"Gonzales Housing Authority board member","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"7/20/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"Jesse Gonzales received the full support of the Alderwood City Council Monday night to serve on the Alderwood Housing Authority Board of Directors. Gonzales was appointed to the board by Mayor Rex Luthor with Council support. \"He is excited about joining the Alderwood Housing Authority,\" said Luthor. \"This appointment is forwarded to you (Council) with my full confidence.\" Gonzales is the current manager of the Alderwood branch of the Bank of the West. Luthor cited Gonzales' vast financial experience as an asset for him to be able to serve on the board of directors. Gonzales' term on the housing authority board of directors will expire on Sept. 7, 2008"}
{"Id":"1101242832932","Title":"Sharks churn through Neptunes","Author":"Bob Story","Time":"7/19/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"GRANDVIEW - A computer printer breakdown last Thursday evening kept the results of the Alderwood vs. Grandview meet up in the air. But late Friday morning, the Sharks learned they had handily bested the Grandview swim team, 515-296. The win was Alderwood's fourth consecutive victory, and boosted the Sharks' season record to 7-2. Thursday night's win also gave Alderwood a season sweep of the Neptunes. Alderwood out-pointed the Neptunes in nine of the 12 age divisions. Grandview's strength came at girls 18&U, and in the boys 14&U and 16&U races. The leader for the 18&U Grandview girls was Danelle Cowan, who managed to win two of the five individual races. She also garnered two runner-up finishes and swam on both winning relay squads. Teammate Jessica Arteaga added an individual race victory, a second place finish and two relay wins. Preventing Grandview from completely dominating the girls 18&U division was Emily Kresse. The Alderwood swimmer won the 40-yard butterfly and 160-yard individual medley events. Keagan Christensen was a one-man wrecking crew for Grandview at boys 14&U. Christensen was victorious in four of the five individual races, and paced the Neptunes to victory in the 160-yard medley relay. The only race Christensen didn't win was the 40-yard freestyle, which Sam Bardell of Alderwood laid claim to. Bardell easily got by Christensen in that event, besting the runner-up by nearly a second and a half. In the other age division Grandview dominated-boys 16&U-Kevin Concienne and Jacob Robillard were the standouts for the Neptunes. Concienne piled up three individual race victories and two runner-up performances, while Robillard was a two-time winner and had three second place finishes. Alderwood was untouchable in the nine other age divisions. At girls 8&U, Brittany Broersma and Sydnee Hernandez provided the one-two punch for the Sharks. Broersma won all four races, while Hernandez placed second in all four. Alderwood's Toni Castillo secured victory in all five girls 10&U races. Teammates Marisa Broersma nabbed three runner-up finishes, and Jordain Saenz had one second place finish. Hannah Grow of Grandview got the other runner-up placing. The Sharks won both of the relay events in that age division. Castillo, Broersma, Saenz and Emily Hutchins were on both relay squads. At girls 12&U, Kathleen Dolan of Alderwood stood out from the pack. She won four of the five individual races. In the only event she didn't win-the 40-yard backstroke-Dolan placed second, 1.22 seconds behind Grandview's Kinzi Poteet, who had four runner-up showings that evening. The Alderwood 12&U girls won both of the relay events. The squad members included Dolan, Alissa Martin, Megan Schlenker and Samantha Siller. Katie Knee cruised through the girls 14&U events. The Alderwood swimmer won all five individual races, and swam the third leg on the winning 160-yard medley relay team. Her three relay partners were Megan Tyler, Janelle Mendoza and Kaitlyn Broersma. Broersma also notched a pair of second place finishes Thursday. Grandview's Sydney Mottice and Cheyenne Bank combined for three runner-up finishes in the individual events. Bank, Mottice, Alexis McLean and Kinzi Poteet won the girls 14&U freestyle relay. Rachelle Durfey provided the power for Alderwood in the girls 16&U races. Durfey won three of the individual events and placed second in the other two. Teammate Hannah Glockner scored one victory for the Sharks in that age division. Grandview's Allison Grow was a one-time winner and placed second twice. At boys 8&U, Tad Tyhuis of Alderwood swept all four races. Grandview's Bryce Carpenter finished second in all four. Cristian Vargas nailed down three first place wins for Alderwood in the boys 10&U races. He also grabbed a pair of second place showings. Teammates Tim Stiteler and Giovanni Rodriguez each scored one victory and combined for four runner-up performances. Jacob Hollander turned in the best effort for Alderwood in the boys 12&U races. He won the 40-yard breaststroke and 160-yard individual medley events, was second in the 40-yard butterfly and freestyle races, and swam on the winning 160-yard freestyle relay team. His winning relay partners included Edgar Vargas, Brad Luff and Aaron Henry. The Sharks also won the 160-yard medley relay event at boys 12&U. The winning squad was comprised of Henry, Brent Tyhuis, Andrew Myer and S. McMinimee. At boys 18&U, Grandview didn't field any swimmers. Alderwood had two competitors that night-Kaleb Hursh and M. Uribe. Hursh won two of the individual races and swam on both of the winning 18&U relay squads. Uribe picked up three individual race victories and had one relay win to his credit. Alderwood hosts the Prosser Piranhas tomorrow evening (Tuesday). The Sharks will be looking to avenge a 462-376 defeat they suffered at the hands of Prosser back on June 29"}
{"Id":"1101242833151","Title":"Citizen feels minutes should be amended","Author":"John Panni","Time":"7/16/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"Bob Leeds came before the Alderwood City Council this past Monday night asking the governing body to formally amend its meeting minutes of June 14. Leeds felt the meeting minutes of June 14 were incomplete. Leeds said the minutes do not reflect the direct comments made by Councilman John Torch concerning allegations of civil rights activist Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. being an adulterer. The discussion in question stemmed from the Council's plans to rename South First Street Ronald Reagan Boulevard, in honor of the deceased former president. During the sometimes heated discussion, which included naming other streets in town after significant people in history, Torch made the comment that he wouldn't want to rename a street after a known adulterer, referring to Dr. King. The June 14 meeting minutes make no reference to Torch' comments. One of the excerpts from the minutes states that political overtones were brought into the conversation. Leeds said he felt the meeting minutes should be in complete written form for citizens to see what is happening. Leeds said he wasn't sure how long the city was required to keep the tapes of the meeting. Assistant City Manager/City Attorney Bruce Rinz said the city is required to keep the tapes from each meeting for up to six years. City Manager Tom Rockford pointed out to Leeds and the rest of the audience there is no requirement for the meeting minutes to be written verbatim. Rockford said it is unusual anywhere to find meeting minutes written verbatim. Mayor Rex Luthor added that the Council can elect to amend the minutes to reflect the concerns of Leeds. However, none of the Council members made a motion to do so. Rockford did confirm that the tapes are available for citizens to review. . John Panni can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or email him at mPanni@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101242853979","Title":"Grandview City Council Briefs","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"7/15/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"1-Column Naylor honored as youth of the month GRANDVIEW - Grandview High School senior Brian Naylor was honored by the City of Grandview as the Mayor's Youth of the Month. Naylor was present at Monday evening's city council meeting, where he received a certificate, city pin and a T-shirt. Council approves preliminary sub-division GRANDVIEW - Grandview City Council voted Monday evening to approve the preliminary sub-division of Westridge Addition No. 5. The subdivision will include 20 single family lots on nearly 7.95 acres. Council approves annexation and rezone of Young property GRANDVIEW - Monday evening, Grandview City Council voted to approve the petition for annexation and rezone of just over 18 acres of property located at East Stover Road and Lindsey Lane. The petition, submitted by Robert and Jacqueline Young, asked that the property be annexed with a multi-family residential zoning designation"}
{"Id":"1101242854448","Title":"Alderwood Planning Commission approves three annexation requests","Author":"Jamie Smart","Time":"7/15/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"After waiting more than two years to become a part of the City of Alderwood, Gordan and Rhoda Giffen of McLean Road may finally get their wish. Last night, the Alderwood Planning Commission, which held three public hearings regarding to annexation requests, agreed to forward the couple's request to the State Boundary Review Board for Alderwood County. The Planning Commission, meeting at the Alderwood Law and Justice Center on Homer Avenue, took comments from the public regarding the Giffens' request before voting to give the request its stamp of approval. The McLean Road property owners and their daughter-in-law, Lucille Giffen, are seeking the inclusion of their five-acre piece of property into the city limits, which is located at the southwest corner of McLean and Alexander roads, located within the Alderwood Port District. The area is scheduled to be zoned M-2 for heavy industrial development. The Giffens began their quest to be included within the city limits nearly two years ago. However, the request was shelved in 2001 when the state Supreme Court declared any annexation which used the petition method was unconstitutional, explained Bruce Rinz, Alderwood city attorney. Historically, annexation requests required that property owners in the area being considered must all agree to the request. Rinz said the Court Justices felt the system didn't take into consideration the desires of other residents living in the area. \"They reversed themselves in January 2004,\" he said. In the meantime, the State Legislature has amended the state statute to require annexation petitions to have at least 50 percent approval signatures from the property owners, as well as at least 50 percent of the registered voters approval living in the area before it can be considered for annexation. Both changes occurred earlier this year, Rinz said, which has prompted a steady increase in new annexation requests, as well as re-submissions of annexation requests such as the Giffens, he explained. Rinz said the Giffens had previously received the Planning Commission's approval, but the city elected to put all annexations on hold until new annexation statutes were developed. Only Jill Nettleton of Alexander Road voiced any concerns. Nettleton urged the commissioners to ensure that such issues as weed control and proper buffer zones be a part of any future development in the area. Commission Chair Jim Warren assured Nettleton that the buffer and weeds and other issues involved in future developments would fall under the city's landscaping and ordinances and property management regulations. The Planning Commission also approved a previously submitted request for annexation into the city by the Alderwood Port District. Rinz said the Port was seeking to annex 38 areas of property located on the northeast corner of Alexander and McLean roads, which is already surrounded by city limits. \"The Port's request was also put on hold in 2001,\" he said, adding that area will also be zoned M-2. There was no comments from the public regarding the Port's request. It too will be forwarded to the Boundary Review Board. The Planning Commission also approved a request from Don Padelford of Sheller Road, who seeks to have five aces of property located at the end of the Alderwood Airport runway included in the city boundaries. Following the public hearing on the Padelford request, the commissioners could forward his request to the review board. The Padelford property is located at the northeast corner of Highway 241 and Edison Avenue, and is within the city's urban growth plan, Rinz said. . Jamie Smart can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or you can e-mail her at jhart@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101242854917","Title":"Community center topic of discussion","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"7/14/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"Antonio Santoy, who represents the City of Alderwood on the board of directors of the Alderwood Community Center, stepped before the Alderwood City Council Monday night. Santoy wanted to voice some concerns he had with an article in the Friday, July 9, edition of the Alderwood Daily News regarding issues Council had with the operation of the community center by the Washington State Migrant Council (WSMC). The news article highlighted some concerns Council voiced at its retreat last Thursday about WSMC's management of the city's community center. Some of the concerns included a lack of communication between WSMC and the Council. Santoy said the board of directors has met at least four times this year that he knows of, and offered minutes of the meetings to Council for review. \"We are scheduled for more this year,\" said Santoy. Santoy also said that it was his understanding the only time the board of directors had to come before Council was for an annual financial report. He also invited Council members to attend any of the board meetings. Santoy also wanted to make clear to Council the intent of the center's board of directors. \"We are here for the community,\" said Santoy. \"We are not here for certain entities.\" Mayor Rex Luthor told Santoy that City Manager Tom Rockford is currently reviewing the situation. Luthor asked Santoy to deliver any minutes or other items of interest concerning the community center to Rockford for review"}
{"Id":"1101242855417","Title":"Council approves $15,500 expenditure for aquatics center project","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"7/13/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"GRANDVIEW - When Grandview City Council met three weeks ago it approved spending almost 12,000 to make improvements to the pathway that surrounds Dykstra Park. Monday night, council members approved another expenditure. This time city council voted to allocate 15,500 to help pay for architectural services and election costs associated with the proposal for a new aquatic center in Grandview. The funds being distributed by the city are being taken from 71,000 in additional revenue that has become available in the current expense fund. According to City Administrator Jim Sewell, the additional funds are from utility tax revenues that are running ahead of estimates. When the council was working to create the 2004 budget last fall, each of the department heads submitted a list of one-time capital items they would like purchased if funds were available. At the time, council decided to wait to make any decisions on the purchases until they had a better idea of what the revenue estimates would be for the year. After making a decision last month to spend money on refurbishing the Dykstra Park pathway, council members decided to wait until they discovered the fate of Initiative 864, which would have had a significant impact on the city's budget. Sewell noted that the initiative did not make the ballot. When council met Monday, Sewell offered them several options of what they could do with the additional funds. He noted that they could simply save the money until it is needed to offset budget issues that have arisen since the passage of initiates like I-695, which he estimates will be just several years down the road. He said council could also choose to simply go down the list of capital items that were submitted by the department heads, and choose the items they wanted to purchase until they had gone through the additional funds. Councilwoman Helen Darr said she would like to see council hold onto the money. Councilman Robert Morales agreed with Darr, with the exception of putting the 15,500 aside for the aquatics center. During the meeting, council voted to approve the expenditure for the aquatics center, with the exception of Darr who voted against the measure. Sewell explained that the funds will be used to pay for an architect to take a look at the aquatics center project and divide it into certain individual pieces that can be fit together to create an aquatics center that will be deemed affordable by voters. . Ellie Olmsen can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or e-mail her at eolmstead@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101242855932","Title":"Council rakes over issues at retreat","Author":"John Panni","Time":"7/12/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"What to leave off the plate and what to go after head-on was a point of major discussion by the Alderwood City Council at its retreat last Thursday at Whistlin' Jack Lodge. The Council went over a list of about 30 items of concern to address in the upcoming year with City Manager Tom Rockford One of the first issues on the list was the Monson feedlot matter. Council has been trying to figure a way to buy the feedlot in Outlook for the past couple of years, citing several different concerns ranging from curbing odor problems to clean air. Rockford said he will be coming back shortly to Council with a report on the matter. Council also wants to further expand on a new landscaping ordinance the city adopted for commercial developments. Rockford said it is also important for the city to be consistent in its residential requirements for landscaping. Currently, R-1 zones require new homes to install lawn and sprinkler systems within the first year. But no such requirements exists for new homes constructed in R-2 zones. Council also wants to give the planning commission the opportunity to expand the landscaping ordinance to industrial and residential locations. A significant discussion that took place at the meeting had to deal with the matter of privatizing wastewater and EMS services. Councilwoman Jennie Angel immediately expressed her opposition to the proposal, but the rest of the Council thought privatization was at least worth a look. \"I think we should pursue anything to make the organization more efficient,\" said Mayor Rex Luthor. Rockford offered Council a suggestion to pursue the privatization matter. Rockford said Council should put out a request for proposals from various firms, while asking at the same time that city staff from the different departments issue a similar RFP. Rockford said the Council would get a good idea of what can be offered from both sides under this process. Rockford said similar approaches have worked in such cities as Phoenix, AZ. Another discussion dealt with how the city should approach the possibility of tax guru Tim Eyman reintroducing Initiative 864 to rollback property tax fees. The matter failed to make it on this year's November ballot because it didn't gain enough signatures, but Rockford said Eyman will more than likely be rewriting the issues for next year. Rockford said he felt it is important for the city to prepare itself for any money shortages caused by the possibility of residents passing the issue next year. \"We have to have a more balanced approach,\" said Rockford. Councilman John Torch felt it was important for the city to take that step while educating citizens on where their tax dollars are spent. Luthor added that residents need to realize the city actually receives a very small portion of their tax dollars. He added the figure could be even smaller with a sales tax streamline issue that will be coming to a head soon. Under this issue, money from sales tax will be sent from the east side of the state to the west. Councilman Tom Seeger was against the idea of raising taxes, as Rockford suggested as a possible solution to help build a nest egg in reserves in case any Eyman initiatives do pass. Rockford said Council will be able to discuss the matter more as budget time nears. Downtown parking was another discussion. Rockford urged the Council to be sure that the fines being issued for violating downtown parking regulations cover the cost of enforcement. The Council also discussed the idea of drafting ordinance requirements that would limit what sort of manufactured homes could be placed in the community. This is an issue that the planning commission will be discussing in the near future. Rockford also discussed with the Council members the advantages of owning city vehicles compared to leasing. However, he said it is important to leave the equipment reserve fund untouched to ensure the city has enough money to properly replace its vehicles when needed. Other discussion items included installing some sort of sound buffer for residents along South First Street once the reconstruction project is completed. The city leaders also want to look at expanding the fire department facility and improving the entryways into the community"}
{"Id":"1101242876245","Title":"City gets ready to start search for new council member","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"7/6/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"People have approximately a week to think about throwing their hat into the ring, and trying for a seat on Alderwood City Council. According to Mayor Rex Luthor, it is anticipated that applications will be available at Alderwood City Hall beginning Tuesday, July 13. The applications are being made available to help find someone to fill the seat that will be vacated by Councilman Alex de la Cruz, who will be moving to Colorado Springs, Colo. Monday, de la Cruz said he will be submitting a letter of resignation to the council within the next couple of days. Luthor noted that the exact amount of time people will have to submit an application will be decided by members of the city council, but he anticipates it will be a one or two week time frame. Those who are thinking about submitting an application should keep several things in mind. Luthor explained that to serve as a city council member a person has to be a registered voter and has to have lived in the city for at least one year. Luthor said the person who is appointed to council will serve until the next election, for which the filing period is the last week in July 2005. He said the election held next fall will determine who will serve the remaining two years of de la Cruz's term, which expires Dec. 31, 2007. As for the selection process, Luthor said the city council will go through an interview process with the final action of appointing an applicant to the vacant position taking place during a public meeting. \"The selection process will be to solicit applications, review applications, interview applicants and select a council member,\" Luthor said. He added that he is hoping to have someone appointed to the position as soon as possible. He explained that the city has 90 days from the time of vacancy to appoint someone to the position. . Ellie Olmsen can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or e-mail her at eolmstead@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101242876479","Title":"Flory wins Mayor's Cup","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"7/6/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Grandview City Councilman Bill Flory won the annual Mayor's Challenge Cup during the 2004 soap box derby race held over the Fourth of July weekend. Flory bested Alderwood Mayor Rex Luthor to take top honors in this past Saturday's race. There were also four other divisions in the soap box derby on Saturday. Robby Reid took top honors in the adult division. Pete Garza claimed runner-up honors and Jack Hollmeyer was third. In the youth red division race, Michele Rae Williams claimed the top spot, followed by Michael Lubina and Drew Scheenstra rounding out the top three. Vaunce Montelongo was the winner of the youth blue division. Rosa Garza took second place honors and Vincent Montelongo was third. Earning the top spot in the youth green division was Kendra Hollmeyer. Hannah Seeger took runner-up honors and Anthony Rodriguez rounded out the top three"}
{"Id":"1101242876714","Title":"Prosser Memorial New computer system will help improve patient experience at Prosser hospital","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"7/6/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"PROSSER - Prosser Memorial Hospital (PMH) recently became \"wired.\" The hospital achieved this new status through a technology project, expanding computer utilization at PMH from 36 to more than 100 computers, as well as through a newly integrated health information management system. All of these changes have come over the past two years. The new health information management system allows staff to operate more efficiently when receiving, documenting and disseminating patient information. The project began in May 2002, when it was determined that a major computer system upgrade was needed and the PMH Board of Directors voted to approve the technology project. The project began by evaluating prospective health information management system choices, including four national health information companies. In the end, CPSI was selected due to its high rating for user satisfaction and its price point. The company currently provides service to more than 750 hospitals, primarily on the east coast and Mid-West. However, the company is in the process of branching out into the Northwest and PMH is now a pilot site. The hospital has invested more than 577,000 for hardware and software components. The system conversion began in June 2003 with the installation of an IBM E-Server unit and software components. Over time, the system will allow for component additions and upgrades as demand and usage increases. Current departments utilizing the new software include patient financial services, patient care order entry, laboratory, diagnostic imaging, admitting, pharmacy, and medical records. Other departments anticipated to begin using the system in the coming months include risk management, infection control, quality management and a nursing module that will allow bedside patient charting. When the system is fully in place, patients will be admitted to the emergency room using a bedside touch-screen computer, which will produce an armband coded with the patient's medical record number. Medical staff will also be able to order blood work from the lab, x-rays from the diagnostic imaging department or medication from the pharmacy using their computers. The computers can also be used to notify appropriate departments immediately and accurately with test results delivered directly to the physician, allowing for faster diagnosis and treatment. The system also allows a patient's primary provider to be kept apprised of the patient's status from his or her office. Another component of the system is physician connectivity, which began with general surgeon Dr. Paul Schreiber. The system allows him to schedule surgery cases, input orders and monitor diagnostic results for his patients prior to arriving at the hospital. The goal is to establish similar links with all affiliated physicians over the next six months to one year. The Alderwood Valley Farm Workers Clinic in Grandview is currently in the process of implementing the program. The CPSI system is compliant with the federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) and is very secure, with 160 controls that monitor and allow specific staff access to particular areas of a patient's medical information. The hardware is a redundant or \"mirrored\" system, which means it is duplicated at CPSI headquarters. This duplication reduces the risk of potential data loss should some component of the system fail. The new software has posed some unique challenges for staff as they have worked to adopt the new system. The staff has become more proficient and knowledgeable with all sides of the data entry system. Hospital officials say medical billing has and will continue to become significantly more accurate, leading to fewer outstanding bills. Future modules will serve to streamline the medical care process at the hospital, allowing clinical staff to devote more time toward direct patient care"}
{"Id":"1101242876979","Title":"Alderwood losing councilman Alex de la Cruz to Colorado market","Author":"Jamie Smart","Time":"7/5/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"After proving himself to be a progressive, energetic businessman and community leader, Alderwood's Alex de la Cruz has attracted the national attention of one of the country's most popular leading fast food chains. As franchise owner of the KFC and A&W restaurant on Alderwood Valley Highway in Alderwood, the 21-year-old businessman finds himself being promoted to manage a KFC/A&W restaurant located in one of the fastest growing regions of the country. The restaurateur announced Friday he will be accepting a promotion to manage a KFC/A&W franchise in Colorado Springs, Colo. effective immediately. \"I fly out Saturday for Colorado,\" de la Cruz said this morning (Monday). He said he knew his company, Harman Management of Los Altos, Calif., was considering him for the Colorado position for several weeks. \"They offered it to me this past Friday and I accepted,\" he explained. \"It's a great opportunity for me to advance within the company and to take part in the rapid growth in the Colorado market,\" said the young businessman, who has operated the Alderwood KFC franchise for the past eight years. He, along with his wife, Audrey, relocated their new and expanded restaurant on Alderwood Valley Highway in October 2002, after managing the downtown KFC store for six years. This past March, the couple was presented the Alderwood Chamber of Commerce Outstanding Community Beautification Award. In addition to turning his restaurant over to a new manager, he will also be resigning his seat on the Alderwood City Council. de la Cruz, who was elected to the City Council in November 2003, informed Alderwood city Mayor Rex Luthor this past Friday of his decision to resign from the council. de la Cruz said he would be informing his fellow council members of his resignation and will be submitting a letter to the council within the next couple of days. \"I have grown so much during my six months as a councilman. It has been a great privilege to serve the community as a councilman,\" he said. \"It has been a very rewarding opportunity to serve the community from the council.\" \"We are losing an intelligent and enthusiastic member of our council,\" said Luthor. In the meantime, Luthor said the he will begin accepting applications to replace the youngest city councilman, who is serving his first term. \"We're losing a great asset to our community, not just as a city leader, but as a progressive businessman,\" said Luthor, who added that council has 30 days in which to appoint a replacement for de la Cruz. \"Whoever is selected to fill the now vacated position will be expected to stand for election in November to fill the remainder of de la Cruz's term,\" Luthor explained. Those interested are encouraged to pick up applications at the Alderwood City Hall, 820 E. Edison Ave. Tuesday night at 6 p.m., the family and friends of de la Cruz will hold a \"going away\" party at Alderwood's Snipes Mountain Brewery and Restaurant. The public is welcome to attend and add its well wishes for the de la Cruz family. ??Jamie Smart can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or you can e-mail her at jhart@hawkpress.com Alderwood Daily News photo Alderwood's Alex de la Cruz to leave Alderwood to relocated to Colorado Springs, Colo"}
{"Id":"1101242896917","Title":"Former Alderwood history teacher visits Russia","Author":"Mel Sacher","Time":"7/2/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"Alderwood resident Jim Galbraith spent 32 years teaching Russian history, and this past spring he was able to experience the country first-hand as he and his wife traveled on a boat tour from St. Petersburg to Moscow. Galbraith shared his experiences and thoughts on the trip with the Alderwood Kiwanis Club Thursday morning. Having traveled extensively through Western Europe, Galbraith said he has seen the picture perfect sites of Europe. \"In Russia you can buy lots of postcards and none of them are picture perfect,\" he said. Galbraith and his wife Barbara first became interested in the adventure early this year when family members said they would be taking a cruise along the rivers from St. Petersburg to Moscow. When the relatives had to back out at the last minute, the Galbraiths still made the journey. Arriving at St. Petersburg airport, Galbraith said he was not very impressed with the facility. The city, he added, which was built in 1703 by Peter the Great, was drab looking. \"All I saw was high rise apartment building after high rise apartment building and lots of traffic,\" said Galbraith. A city of 5 million people, St. Petersburg has no freeways. The largest road was three lanes. He added that all of the streets are in bad shape. While in St. Petersburg, Galbraith visited the Peterhof, a palace Peter the Great commissioned the building of, beginning in 1703. The palace is currently being restored following it destruction during World War II. The gardens are filled with fountains, all of which operate on a gravity flow system. Galbraith said there was gold leave and gilt throughout the grounds. Leaving St. Petersburg by boat, Galbraith said the river cruise included guides and experts who provided the tourists with the history and culture of Russia. They were also entertained with folkloric performances. One of the speakers on the boat was a PhD professor, who shared some of his independent findings when polling the Russian people for his government. Interestingly, Galbraith said, the Russian people like their current leader Vladimir Putin the best. Second best was Joseph Stalin. \"That should probably tell you that Russians are probably not going to embrace democracy for another generation,\" said Galbraith. Navigating the Russian rivers, Galbraith said the rivers were lined with endless timber. \"Lumbering is evident,\" he said, \"but all of the logs are very small.\" He said that along the river he would see small villages, often only eight to 12 houses large with little or no access to the outside world. Galbraith said they are self-sufficient, living off the land without running water or electricity. One common thing among Russians living in the country-side, he said, was the presence of \"Victory Gardens.\" He said the gardens were up to half an acre in size, and make up 54 percent of all Russian agriculture. Galbraith also visited the Russian national museum, which he said was filled with the works of great painters, but not the ones you see in the history books. There were Picassos and Rembrandts, he said. There were also numerous works of modern art. He also visited the Peter and Paul Fortress and attended church there. Galbraith said that before the fall of communism there were about five churches in St. Petersburg. There are now 150. In Moscow, a city of more than 10 million people, there were 15 churches before the fall of communism, now there are about 500. \"There are no seats in Russian churches,\" he said. \"The churches are for individual worship. You go in and stand next to whichever icon you prefer and worship.\" He said that Russia is known for its icons. In Moscow, Galbraith visited Red Square and Gum, a \"glorified shopping mall.\" Preparing for their independence celebration, Galbraith said that portions of Red Square were sectioned off. Galbraith said that the most repairs he saw to the buildings was in Moscow. \"They pay close attention to anything with historical significance because that's what the tourists want to see,\" he said. He said there were actually very few Russians shopping at Gum. \"They can't afford to,\" he said, explaining that earning 10,000 to 15,000 in American dollars each year makes for a pretty good living in Russia"}
{"Id":"1101242897151","Title":"Guest Editorial","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"7/2/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"by CONGRESSMAN DOC HASTINGS The People's Republic of China has recently stepped up efforts to gain access to the U.S. fresh apple market - an action that could have serious consequences for American fruit growers far beyond simple market competition. China is home to numerous pests and diseases that have the potential to devastate American agriculture. The U.S. Department of Agriculture's (USDA) Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS) has already identified nearly 300 pests present in Chinese apple production areas that do not occur in the United States. This is an especially significant concern as China doesn't have a good track record of ensuring that their native pests and diseases do not enter our country. Less than a year ago, APHIS halted the importation of Ya pears from China due to the presence of a fungal disease. The initial discovery of this was in Washington state. If this disease had become established, it could have caused significant economic harm to not only the U.S. pear industry, but also to the entire tree fruit industry, including apples and cherries. Another pest native to China, the Emerald Ash Bore (EAB), was discovered in Michigan and has cost millions in losses. As USDA works to eradicate this destructive tree-killing beetle, taxpayers foot the bill. We were very lucky that the Ya pear incident in Washington was discovered quickly, and there were no long-term or large-scale impacts to the U.S. tree fruit industry. However, the United States simply cannot afford another incident like the EAB infestation. The United States has a well-established track record of using sound science as the basis for determinations on the safety of imported agricultural products. Until scientific experts are convinced that imported apples will not be a pathway for the introduction of a destructive disease or pest, our markets should not be opened to Chinese apples. It is very important that APHIS moves only with great caution as they consider requests from China to export fresh apples to our country. The USDA's first responsibility must be protecting American agriculture and American consumers. I have every confidence that the quality of U.S. apples means they can readily compete in the global marketplace with Chinese apples. However, U.S. growers should not be forced to deal with new pests and diseases from China, and the significant costs that would come with them. Congressman Doc Hastings (R-Pasco) represents Central Washington's 4th Congressional District"}
{"Id":"1101242897667","Title":"Outlook man new fire chief","Author":"John Panni","Time":"7/1/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"Being a firefighter is a unique occupation. Even more unique is that Brian Vogel is fire chief of Alderwood County Fire District #5, the largest fire district in the state of Washington. \"I am pretty excited about it,\" said Vogel of his new job. Vogel, 43, took over the duties of chief today (Thursday), replacing the retired Mark Kimm. Kimm officially retired from the fire district Wednesday, leaving behind a 33-year career, nine of which was as the chief. Vogel is a native of Toppenish and currently lives in Outlook with his wife, Sheryl. The couple has two children, Nick and Jordan. Fire fighting sort of runs in the blood for Vogel. His father, Bill, retired from the fire management office of the Bureau of Indian Affairs. Vogel first became involved with the county fire district, which covers 700 square miles, in 1981, volunteering in the Toppenish station. While he volunteered at the county station, Vogel continued working at Safeway in Toppenish, a job he had held since he was 16 years old. \"It was a good job,\" said Vogel. \"But I knew it was not what I wanted to do with the rest of my life.\" Vogel wasn't initially interested in a career in fire fighting. He went to college and took some pre-law classes with the desire of going into law enforcement. Vogel joked that he decided to switch careers because he didn't like the idea of shift work. Vogel earned his break with the fire district in 1983, starting out as a firefighter, then moving to zone chief for the county's station in Grandview. Due to some reorganization, Vogel was promoted to the position of battalion chief, where he oversaw the day-to-day operations for four fire stations-Grandview, Alderwood, Mabton and Outlook. The position of battalion chief has since been changed to captain. In 1999, Vogel was named to the position of deputy chief, who works directly under the fire chief. Vogel replaced the legendary Dave Donaldson, whom he considers one of his mentors in the firefighting profession. \"He was a good teacher,\" said Vogel. \"He was a very professional fireman. I had a lot of good teachers. I had a lot of good mentors.\" In his role as deputy chief, Vogel oversaw the four captains that look over the operations of the 16 fire stations within the district. \"It was more of an administrative role,\" said Vogel. Vogel decided to apply for the position of fire chief because it was the next step in his career. \"It was just a career goal of mine from the day I started,\" said Vogel. \"It is something I am looking forward to doing.\" Vogel doesn't expect things to change all that much since he has taken over the lead role in the district. Vogel said one of the important aspects of the job he learned from Kimm was to involve the rest of the staff. \"He made an effort to give everybody a voice,\" said Vogel. \"That didn't mean he would always agree with you, but he gave everybody an opportunity to be heard.\" Vogel said he wants to continue the tradition Kimm had in the district of including everyone in the decision making. \"Hopefully, everybody still feels their opinion is valuable,\" said Vogel. \"It is going to be a group effort.\" Kimm left the fire district in great shape, said Vogel. \"The district has moved light years ahead of where it was,\" said Vogel. Vogel hopes to keep that momentum going in his new position, but he also has some other goals he wants to address. \"I would really like for the people of our district to know who we are,\" said Vogel. \"A lot of people don't really realize there is a fire district that protects them.\" Vogel said there have been several occasions where he has gone out to fight a fire and people think that the county personnel work for one of the cities. Vogel said the fire district has been working hard over the last few years to establish its own identity, and he wants to keep that momentum going. Vogel is also hoping that increased publicity will help boost the number of volunteers in the district. Vogel wants people to see volunteering with the county fire department can lead to a good career. \"Within our district, most people who come to work here stay here,\" said Vogel. Vogel, though, is expecting to face some tough decisions if any more tax cutting initiatives pass. Vogel deals with a nearly 3 million budget that comes strictly from property tax revenue. With that money, Vogel oversees 20 paid staff, which includes administrators, firemen and dispatchers, and 16 different fire stations within a 700 square mile area. Vogel said the fire district has always prided itself with never having to go to the voters with a special bond or levy to pay for services. \"We still don't want to go to a bond issue,\" said Vogel. \"But, it is going to come to the point where we won't have much choice.\" Vogel is looking forward to a prosperous career as the new chief. \"The next year I am going to be learning the little things that Mark did,\" said Vogel. \"I love my job. There haven't been any days that I have woke up and haven't wanted to go to work"}
{"Id":"1101242897901","Title":"New fire truck showcased for G'view community","Author":"Mel Sacher","Time":"7/1/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"GRANDVIEW - A 100,000 grant from the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) has helped the City of Grandview maintain its fire rating, as well as city residents' insurance premiums. Grandview Fire Chief Charles Damron gave rides to local residents Wednesday morning on the city's new Class A pumper truck that was purchased by the city with the USDA grant. According to Grandview Mayor Mike Bren, without the new truck insurance premiums were expected to increase by 10 percent. Grandview residents voted down a levy that would have paid for the new pumper. So instead, city officials looked to grant funding to update their fire department fleet. The truck, which replaces a 1965 Commercial pumper, is one of three Class A engines in service. Grandview also has a 75-foot ladder truck. Damron explained that the ladder truck isn't for tall buildings, but rather for the numerous warehouses in the community. The new pumper features a five-man cab, compared to the three people the old cab held. The new truck also has self-contained breathing apparatus built into four of the seats. Damron said with the new truck his department can have the five people needed on-scene to initiate firefighting efforts to immediately enter a building. He added that the truck will help with the 450 city calls and 200 county calls the small department responds to annually. Grandview City Administrator Jim Sewell said that besides applying for the grant, the city contacted Congressman Doc Hastings to encourage funding for the truck. \"Doc was probably getting tired of us sending e-mails and calling,\" said Sewell. \"If we hadn't been able to this now, our fire rating would have gone up and it would have cost people more money,\" said Sewell. Hastings worked with the City of Grandview and the USDA for more than a year on arranging the funding for the truck. \"The Grandview Fire Department works very hard to protect the local community,\" Hastings told those who attended yesterday's unveiling of the new pumper. \"These funds will help the department upgrade its fire equipment and enhance its capabilities,\" said Hastings. Also on hand for the introduction of the truck into the community was Jackie J. Gleason, Washington State Director for USDA Rural Development. Gleason said that after Sept. 11, 2000, President George W. Bush said there was a need for more first responders. \"He said, 'We need to do more',\" said Gleason. The Bush administration added 500 million to the budget to help provide funding to fire departments across the United States. \"This is what government is supposed to do. We're supposed to be partners,\" said Gleason"}
{"Id":"1101242898151","Title":"Guest Editorial","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"6/30/2003","Tag":null,"Content":" DON C. BRUNELL Some critics of the American economic system point to Europe as the model we should emulate: shorter work hours, longer vacations, generous employee benefits, and in some cases, an employer has to get the government's permission to fire a worker. \"Money isn't everything,\" these people say. \"Europeans have a better quality of life.\" Really? Let's take a look. According to a recent report by two economists at Sweden's Timbro Institute, the quality of life in Europe is pretty bad. France, Italy, Great Britain and Germany have lower per capita GDP than all but four of the states in the United States. In fact, if the European Union were a state in the United States, it would be among the poorest, on a par with Arkansas, Mississippi or West Virginia. It is true that most Europeans work less than Americans. It is also true that they have less to show for it. The average house in Europe is about half the size of the average American home. In fact, the average European home is smaller than the homes of Americans who live in poverty. Speaking of poverty, the percentage of poor people in the U.S. has diminished over the past several decades. For example in 1959, 22 percent of all Americans lived below the poverty line. Today, it's 12 percent. Conditions also have steadily improved for minorities. In 1959, 55 percent of African Americans lived in poverty. Today, it's 24 percent. Not great, but better. But what is poverty in America? The Swedish authors surveyed poor Americans to get a picture of how they live. They found that 45 percent of poor Americans own their own homes, 73 percent own a car, 97 percent own a color television, and more than half own two or more color TVs. Two out of three poor households in American have cable or satellite TV and one in four has a wide screen television. As the authors remarked, \"It is better to be poor in a rich country than in a poor one.\" How does this compare to Europe? According to the authors, at least 40 percent of all European households would be considered poverty-stricken in America. So, what does this tell us? It tells us that despite all our problems, we're on the right track. Conditions are better here than in most of the rest of the world, and they're getting better for the poorest among us. The study confirms that high taxes and burdensome regulations strangle initiative and economic growth. When that happens, it is the individual who suffers. Italy, France, Germany and Spain all have unemployment rates 50 percent to 100 percent higher than the U.S., and many of the jobs in those countries and other EU members are actually public-sector jobs that \"produce\" nothing. Europeans may have an easier time at work, but shorter work hours, longer vacations and great benefits don't matter if you don't have a job. Since jobs are the focal point of this year's presidential campaign, the Timbro Institute study ought to give us something to think about. Don C. Brunell is President of the Association of Washington Business"}
{"Id":"1101242898417","Title":"Golob competes for State Dairy crown","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"6/29/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"LYNNWOOD - Outgoing Alderwood Valley Dairy Princess Kendra Golob was one of nine young ladies competing for the title of Washington State Dairy Ambassador last Friday in Lynnwood. When the final tallies from the judges were computed, it was McKenzie Klein, 18, of Whatcom County who was chosen to represent the dairy industry in the coming year. Selected to serve as co-alternate state dairy ambassadors were Kristen Irving, representing King-Pierce counties, and Laura Nelson, representing June County. The six other young ladies competing for the state ambassador crown were Golob, Meagan Groat of Clark County, Cassandra Forar of Grays Harbor, Carissa Sauer of Inland Northwest, Jessica Orange of Skagit-Island counties and Melissa Neff of Snohomish County. Golob was the 2003-04 Alderwood Valley Dairy Princess. The state event in Lynnwood capped off her duties as Alderwood Valley Dairy Princess. NiBones Linde of Outlook is the 2004-05 reigning Alderwood Valley Dairy Princess. The newly crowned state ambassador will represent the dairy industry through public appearances during her year-long term. Klein will also serve a 10-month paid internship with the Washington Dairy Products Commission at its Lynnwood office. She will receive college credits for her internship, 4,500 in college scholarships and extensive training in communications. The Washington state dairy princess/ambassador program is open to candidates who possess dairy knowledge-either by being in a family that works in the dairy industry or having taken on a 4-H or FFA dairy heifer or cow project for at least two years"}
{"Id":"1101242898651","Title":"Working Stiff","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"6/29/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"GRANDVIEW - When you ask Grandview Librarian Linda Dunham how long she has worked at Bleyhl Community Library, she has her answer down to the exact day. As of last Tuesday, Dunham had been on the job for 24 years, one month and two days. Although Dunham has been working at the library for some time, it's the story of how she came to be a community librarian that is unusual. Dunham was born in south Texas, moving to Arkansas at the age of 2 1/2. When Dunham turned 14 she moved again, this time to attend a boarding school in Missouri, which was called the School of the Ozarks at the time. Dunham explained that the school included a four-year high school and a junior college. Dunham said when she started attending the junior college, she was working toward being an English major. However, when all was said and done she ended up getting her undergraduate degree in food technology and animal husbandry. Dunham said the reason for this sudden switch was that after attending two years of college at the School of Ozarks she had to make a decision regarding where she would continue her education. She said the school offered full ride two-year scholarships to several colleges in the area. Dunham admitted that she chose to attend the college she did because it was where one of her relatives was attending school. The only snag was the one subject she could major in and still use her scholarship was animal husbandry. Needless to say, Dunham is qualified to be a butcher. After graduating from college she was offered a job working as a meat inspector for the United States Department of Agriculture. Dunham explained that she didn't take the job because it would have meant living in one place no longer than 30 days at a time. After interviewing for several other jobs related to her degree, Dunham found that the University of Missouri had just opened a library science school. Dunham immediately enrolled and was a part of the first library science class. However, she later married a man who was working on his doctorate at Rutgers University in New Jersey. Dunham said she decided it would be a good idea if she started attending classes there as well, but she ended up having to fight to go to school there. Dunham said at the time the school was looking for liberal arts majors and not science majors, which technically she was. Dunham said she scheduled a meeting and explained to university administrators that she had a strong liberal arts background and deserved to go to the school. It took a little convincing, with the administrators asking Dunham if she would be willing to take an oral exam on library science from one of the leading professors in the field. If she passed she would gain entry. Dunham started classes there immediately, graduating after about a year and half. Dunham said the first job she took out of college was at a pharmaceutical library in New Jersey. After working there for awhile she took time off to raise her children, then her family moved to Michigan State University, where her husband was doing research. From there her family moved to South Texas and then on to Prosser in 1977, where her husband had gotten a job at the Irrigated Agriculture Research and Extension Center. The fall after her family had moved to the Lower Valley, Dunham got a job working as a reporter and photographer for the Prosser Record-Bulletin. She didn't hear about the library job in Grandview until about a year and half after taking the reporting job. She said she was at the Prosser library one day when one of the librarians told her about the opening. Dunham said she immediately went to Grandview and learned that the position was closing that day. So she stood there and filled out the application, while her six-year old son waited. Dunham said she remembers not hearing anything about the job for a long time. Then one day she was called in for an interview in front of the library board. Then it was another two months before Dunham was offered the job. \"I had given up even getting the job,\" Dunham said. Dunham said her job at the Grandview community library provides for a lot of variety. She said she was a little surprised how much her research background has helped her in the public forum. She said a lot of younger people don't realize that one of the best ways to do research still involves using books and not the internet. Dunham said working at the public library has also forced her to confront her shyness. She said she has found that she enjoys people. In fact, she said that after working at the library for so long, there are a lot of people she has met through the library that are like old friends. In fact, the library is where Dunham met her second husband. She said the two first met at the circulation desk. Dunham said the thing she has found the most challenging in regards to her job, is trying to run an up-to-date library that has what users are looking for and doing it on less and less money. She noted that the library currently has only half of the money it previously did to purchase books. Dunham said generous donors are helping ensure that the library is able to keep up with book purchases. She noted that the Friends of the Library group has also proven to be an essential element to the library. In the end, even though Dunham always envisioned herself has a research librarian, she has found her niche at the Grandview community library"}
{"Id":"1101242899120","Title":"Off-premise signs approved on 3-1 vote","Author":"Mel Sacher","Time":"6/25/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"With a vote of 3-1, the Alderwood Board of Adjustment approved a conditional use permit for two All-City Bail Bonds signs for off-site advertising. The signs have already been erected along Homer Street and Alderwood Valley Highway between Homer and First streets. They are located on Richard Bootsma's property. \"Our code does provide a conditional use permit for off-premise signs,\" said Rinz. \"We told the person who wanted the signs that they need permits and they understand if it's not approved that they will have to take it down,\" said Rinz. Rinz said the signs will be required to be maintained. He added that the city staff recommended the approval of the signs. Rinz added that in the stipulations, the city would require that the owner of the signs would comply with city codes, if ever a sign ordinance was developed in the future. Rinz added that currently the city does not allow new billboards to be built in the community. Board of Adjustment Chairperson Terrie Williard voted against allowing the off-premise signs. \"I think Alderwood has become a clean town, and what we've got here is almost a miniature billboard,\" said Williard. She added that she doesn't like that the city could easily slip back to a city that allows billboards. \"This isn't a directional sign,\" she said referring to an off-premise sign approved by the Board of Adjustment last year. \"It's just a miniature billboard.\" \"The property is such an eyesore to begin with. I have a problem putting more there when we're trying to get Alderwood clean to begin with,\" Williard added. Board member Juan Angel said that it is the Board of Adjustment's job to make sure the signs comply with current codes. He said that with nothing currently on the books prohibiting an off-premise sign, he would have to vote for it. \"I would have a difficult time not to support this without compelling reason,\" he added. Rick Berk, a member of the Board of Adjustment, said he sees both sides. In the end Berk, Angel and Craig Miller voted in favor of the conditional use permit for the off-premise signs. . Mel Sacher can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or e-mail msacher@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101242918339","Title":"Setback change approved for Grandview Avenue home","Author":"Mel Sacher","Time":"6/25/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"Excusing himself from the bench of the Alderwood Board of Adjustment, Craig Miller requested the board consider his request for a variance to the side-yard setback at his 1018 Grandview Ave. home. Board of Adjustment members voted unanimously Wednesday night to approve the variance, which will allow him and his wife Cheryl to construct a two-car garage, a canopy roof for RV storage and a storage area on the west side of their home. The Miller's made the request for a five-foot variance for their side yard, which is located on the corner of Grandview Avenue and Upland Drive. Their house, which is on a corner lot, is required by city ordinances to have two 20-foot setbacks from the street, one from the front yard and one from the side yard. Alderwood City Attorney Bruce Rinz said that the original encroachment on the setback was much greater than the five-foot variance presented last night. He explained that the city's requirement for corner lots to have in essence two front yards, is what keeps the Miller's from proceeding with building plans without asking for a variance. Rinz added that the unusual shape of the Miller's corner lot is part of what makes their exceptional circumstances qualify for a variance. After studying the proposed variance and construction project, Rinz added that city staff recommends approval of the variance, adding that the neighborhood would not be adversely affected. Board of Adjustment member Rick Berk questioned whether visibility around the corner would be blocked if approved, but Rinz said because of the odd angle of the property corner, there shouldn't be any visibility issues. The variance was approved pending an approved site plan. Also, a stipulation for approval was that curb, gutter and sidewalk and any necessary street improvements be made. The structure to be constructed must also comply with city R-1 zoning requirements. . Mel Sacher can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or e-mail msacher@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101242918886","Title":"Neptunes no match for Alderwood Sharks","Author":"Bob Story","Time":"6/25/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"Full throttle. That's how the Alderwood Sharks summer swim team attacked the visiting Grandview Neptunes last night. The defending Mid-Valley Summer Swim League champions throttled Grandview, 551-278. The victory boosted Alderwood's record to 3-1 on the season. The Sharks were firing on all cylinders Thursday evening. They won 48 races to just 26 wins garnered by Grandview. Alderwood also managed to outscore the Neptunes by a 144-84 margin in second place points, collecting 36 runner-up finishes in the individual races to only 21 second place finishes by Grandview. Alderwood's girls were especially formidable last night. They won 33 of the 37 girls races. Katie Knee and Toni Castillo made the biggest splashes for the Sharks. Knee won all five of the girls 14&U individual races. She also was on both girls 14&U winning relay teams. Castillo pulled the same trick in the girls 10&U events. Alderwood's Kathleen Dolan turned in a super effort, as well. She won four of the five girls 12&U individual races, and sparked her club to two relay victories, too. Preventing Dolan from getting the sweep was Grandview's Kinzi Poteet, who claimed top honors in the 50-meter breaststroke. Poteet edged Dolan by 19 one-hundredth's of a second. Girls 8&U swimmers Sydnee Hernandez and Brittany Broersma collected all the first place points for Alderwood in that age division. Hernandez was a three-time winner, with Broersma taking the 50-meter breaststroke. The Sharks' girls 18&U competitors also didn't allow Grandview to pick up a single win. Laura Matson and Rebecca Razey each nabbed two individual victories, with Alderwood teammate Emily Kresse grabbing the other. Alderwood also won both of the relay events in that age division. The only age grouping on the girls side that Grandview dominated was at 16&U. Allison Grow was a three-time winner for the Neptunes. Alderwood's Rachelle Durfey got the two other individual wins. As much as the Sharks dominated last night, Grandview didn't let the evening go by without showing it had several quality swimmers of its own. The Neptunes' Jared Churchill was a one-man wrecking crew at 10&U. Churchill won all five individual races. Alderwood's Cristian Vargas provided Churchill with the biggest challenge, finishing second in four of the five events. Grandview also won four of the five boys 12&U individual events. Ryan Contreras was victorious twice, and Grandview teammates Trent Mottice and Ryan Michener each nailed down one victory. Preventing the Neptunes from a sweep was the Sharks' Jacob Hollander, who won the 200-meter individual medley. The Neptunes also dominated the boys 14&U and 16&U age divisions. Jase Michener picked up three wins for Grandview, and teammate Matt Concienne got the other two 14&U victories. At 16&U, Jacob Robillard was a four-time winner for the Neptunes. Alderwood's David Knee gained the other 16&U win. Tad Tyhuis cleaned up in the boys 8&U events. The Alderwood dynamo won all four races. Alderwood, too, looked strong in the boys 18&U races. Kasey Hursh and Nick Howat each won twice, and fellow Shark Kaleb Hursh was a one-time winner. . Bob Story,can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or e-mail him at bstory@hawkpress.com First place finishers Girls 8&U (S) Sydnee Hernandez-3, (S) Brittany Broersma-1; Girls 10&U (S) Toni Castillo-7, (S) Jordain Saenz-2, (S) Marisa Broersma-2, (S) Tara Van Corbach-2; Girls 12&U (S) Alissa Martin-2, (S) Josslyn Ahumada-1, (S) Kathleen Dolan-6, (S) Samantha Siller-2, (S) Megan Schlenker-1, (G) Kinzi Poteet-1; Girls 14&U (S) Katie Knee-7, (S) Janelle Mendoza-1, (S) Megan Tyler-2, (S) Kaitlyn Broersma-2, (S) Erica Anderson-1; Girls 16&U (S) Rachelle Durfey-3, (G) Allison Grow-3; Girls 18&U (S) Laura Matson-4, (S) Rebecca Razey-4, (S) Emily Kresse-3, (S) Anna Henry-1; Boys 8&U (S) Tad Tyhuis-4; Boys 10&U (S) Cristian Vargas-2, (S) Giovanni Rodriguez-2, (S) Darick Anderson-1, (S) Tony Garza-2, (S) Grant Stutesman-1, (G) Jared Churchill-5; Boys 12&U (S) Jacob Hollander-1, (G) Trent Mattice-3, (G) Ryan Contreras-4, (G) Ryan Michener-3, (G) Christian Salinas-1, (G) J. Churchill-1; Boys 14&U (G) Matt Concienne-4, (G) Eric Charvet-2, (G) Jase Michener-5, (G) Kyle Womach-2; Boys 16&U (S) David Knee-3, (S) Jacob Kresse-2, (G) Jacob Robillard-4; Boys 18&U (S) Kasey Hursh-4, (S) Nick Howat-2, (S) Kaleb Hursh-2, (S) Riley Morris-1. Second place finishers Girls 8&U (S) Brittany Broersma-2, (S) Lyndsee Anderson-1, (S) Sydnee Hernandez-1; Girls 10&U (S) Marisa Broersma-3, (S) Jordain Saenz-2; Girls 12&U (S) Kathleen Dolan-1, (G) Kinzi Poteet-4; Girls 14&U (S) Megan Tyler-2, (G) Sidney Mottice-2, (G) Cheyenne Bank-1; Girls 16&U (S) Rachelle Durfey-2, (G) Allison Grow-1, (G) Britney Sanchez-1, (G) Larell Michener-1; Girls 18&U (S) Emily Kresse-2, (S) Laura Matson-2, (G) Danielle Cowan-1; Boys 8&U (S) Austin Garza-1, (G) Bryce Carpenter-3; Boys 10&U (S) Cristian Vargas-4, (S) Giovanni Rodriguez-1; Boys 12&U (S) Brad Luff-1, (S) Jacob Hollander-1, (G) Ryan Contreras-2, (G) Ryan Michener-1; Boys 14&U (S) Alexander Henry-1, (G) Matt Concienne-2, (G) Jase Michener-2; Boys 16&U (S) Jacob Kresse-3, (S) David Knee-2; Boys 18&U (S) Riley Morris-1, (S) Kasey Hursh-1, (S) Nick Howat-1, (S) Kaleb Hursh-1"}
{"Id":"1101242919120","Title":"Council says no to housing project","Author":"John Panni","Time":"6/24/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"Citing uneasy economic times, the Alderwood City Council this past Monday night voted to not pursue a Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) for a housing rehabilitation program. Council members had been looking for the past few months at pursuing another CDBG to implement a housing rehabilitation program. The city is currently in the final stages of its Alderwood Up! housing rehabilitation program, which is being funded through a CDBG. Alderwood City Manager Tom Rockford expects the grant monies for the Alderwood Up! program to be expended by December. Alderwood Valley Conference of Governments (COG) representative Gene Weinmann informed Council that any application for new housing rehabilitation funds would most likely be submitted in mid-November with monies being made available in early spring. Rockford brought up some concerns for Council to look at before opting on whether or not to enter into the agreement with COG. He said the city would have to come up with slightly more than 6,100 to apply for the grant with the assistance of COG. Rockford said the city is incurring some problems with expenses for the current CDBG program. The expenditures for the Alderwood Up! housing rehabilitation program are coming out of the planning department's budget. But because of some other financial commitments the city is involved with and other budget issues, the planning department's budget will be 91,000 in the red by the end of the year. That figure would rise by the additional 6,100 due to costs associated with applying for the grant. Rockford also wanted Council to know the city would be committed to matching the 115,000 Weinmann made reference to during the meeting as part of Alderwood's match for the CDBG funds. Weinmann said the city wouldn't need to come up with the 115,000 match for two years. Rockford, however, was concerned with the city making any financial commitment in uncertain economic times. Rockford told Council he is already expecting next budget year to be a tight one for the city. The suggestion Rockford had for the city was to wait a year and look for options to ensure it would have those match funds available for the grant. Rockford said it would be better for the city to take this stance than end up refusing a grant from the state. Rockford suggested that if the city does move forward with another housing rehabilitation program that a separate fund is set up to account for any loan payments. Rockford said right now all repayments go directly into the general fund and are difficult to trace. Mayor Rex Luthor agreed with Rockford's recommendation of waiting a year. Luthor said the city needs to ensure it has adequate funds for such priority areas as law enforcement and fire services before forging ahead with a housing rehabilitation program. \"We had a tough budget last year,\" said Luthor. Councilman Alex de la Cruz was also concerned about the budget and committing money the city doesn't know if it will have to such a project. de la Cruz said he didn't want to commit the money for the housing rehabilitation program and then find out the city doesn't have the dollars down the road and people have to be fired. Councilman John Torch also agreed with Rockford, saying that the city's expenditures are exceeding revenue streams. Torch suggested the city wait one year. Council Tom Seeger went a different avenue, saying he was in favor of pursuing the program because he thought it was good for the city. \"Even if we spend 100,000 it is not like we are throwing money away,\" said Seeger. Seeger said once the money from the paybacks on the loans for the housing projects comes back the city should start receiving a steady stream of money. He added that the programs should become self-sufficient, actually generating revenue for the city. Seeger said he would be willing though to go with the direction of Council on the issue. Council unanimously decided not to pursue funds from the state to start a new housing rehabilitation program. . John Panni can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or email him at mPanni@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101242919823","Title":"Alderwood City Council Briefs","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"6/22/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"1-Column Mayor pro-tem absent Monday Mayor Pro-tem George Greenway was absent from Monday night's Alderwood City Council meeting. Council had granted Greenway an excused absence at the Monday, June 14, meeting. Next two Council meetings canceled The Alderwood City Council this past Monday night voted to cancel the next two scheduled meetings because of a lack of agenda items. Council will not meet on Monday, June 28, or Tuesday, July 6. Council was scheduled to meet on July 6 instead of its regular Monday meeting because of the Fourth of July holiday. Councilman Alex de la Cruz was the only member to vote against canceling both scheduled meetings. Council is scheduled to meet again Monday, July 12, at 7 p.m. at the Alderwood Law and Justice Center. Councilwoman apologizes for walking out of meeting This past Monday night, Alderwood City Councilwoman Jennie Angel extended an apology for walking out of the June 14 meeting. Angel inexplicably left last week's Council meeting following a vote on a landscaping ordinance. Angel said she left the meeting because she was feeling ill. \"I didn't mean to leave so abruptly,\" said Angel. Councilman wants several issues brought up for discussion Alderwood City Councilman Alex de la Cruz had a variety of issues this past Monday night that he wanted brought back before Council at a future date. At the top of the list was a report on compliance with the mobile vending ordinance. de la Cruz said in his travels around town he has noticed that mobile vending businesses aren't complying with the ordinance the city passed. \"It is being abused like crazy,\" said de la Cruz. \"We have some people who totally disregard it.\" de la Cruz also asked that the issue of the city leasing vehicles instead of purchasing new ones be brought up for discussion. de la Cruz also wanted to talk with Council about implementing some sort of educational program within the planning department that will help residents with various building tasks"}
{"Id":"1101242920089","Title":"New sales manager one of several faces back at Denchel's","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"6/22/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"For a little more than a month, Dale Dawson has been back at work behind the desk at Tom Denchel Ford Country in Alderwood. Dawson recently came back to the company as sales manager after spending the last seven years working for a Ford dealership in Moscow, Idaho. Dawson said he first came to work for Denchel's in the early 1990s, when the dealership was located at the old gas station on the corner of Sixth Street and Alderwood Valley Highway. He said he started as a salesman and worked for Denchel's until 1995, when he decided to pursue another venture. In 1995, Dawson turned his attention to cooking and purchased an Italian restaurant in Yakima, which he operated until 1998. Dawson said he was born and raised in Alderwood and when the opportunity was brought forward for him to move back to the Alderwood Valley he was more than happy to pursue it. For Dawson, sales is a field he has always excelled in. When he first started he was selling farm equipment and was ranked as one of the three top salesman in the Northwest for the sale of Case equipment. It was from there that Dan Denchel recruited Dawson to come to work for Denchel's. This time around, Dawson said Denchel once again played an integral role in his return to the local dealership. He said Denchel saw him at an automobile auction, where he asked if he would be interested in coming back to Alderwood. Dawson said with Denchel buying into the store, he knew it would be a good time to move back. Dawson said his new position allows him time to work sales, provide good customer service and a chance to get back into the local community. Dawson explained he is part of Denchel's new philosophy, noting that his is not the only familiar face at the dealership. Dawson said Denchel's goal with the dealership is to make the car buying experience more personal. Denchel, who became part owner of the Alderwood and Prosser dealerships in January, said he is working to re-establish the business. He said when things first started there was a more personal way of doing business, which is something he wants to get back to. One way he is doing this is by bringing back familiar faces. Denchel said the people he has brought back exemplify the type of customer service skills he is looking to re-establish at the local dealership. Denchel said his becoming part owner of the two Lower Valley dealerships will also give his brother, Tom Denchel, a chance to grow his third dealership in Hermiston. Tom said he and his brother are hoping to take the dealership even further, working to provide a high class, high quality experience for customers"}
{"Id":"1101242920323","Title":"Mason takes another run at 'Doc","Author":"John Panni","Time":"6/22/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"Craig Mason is ready for round two with U.S. Fourth District Congressman Doc Hastings. Mason, a Democrat, held a press conference yesterday in Yakima to announce his bid to unseat Hastings, a Republican. Mason is looking to build on the nominal success he had the first time around in 2002 against Hastings. Mason joined the political fray late in the 2002 election and ended up as the Democratic challenger against Hastings, managing to grab nearly 35 percent of all votes cast in the November election. \"(I ran) to try and hold him accountable for things that had gone wrong,\" said Mason. Mason had a laundry list of political wrongs that he accuses Hastings of being involved in, including not taking necessary precautions to battle corporate corruption, such as Enron, and backing President George Bush's stance about Iraq. \"We are now in a war destroying our international reputation,\" said Mason. Mason implied that Hastings is a tool of the Bush presidency and that is one of the reasons he has been able to accumulate the power he has gained in the Washington D.C. circles. \"He is an automatic vote for them,\" said Mason. Mason also tackled the always controversial subject of Social Security. Mason said contrary to what Republicans are saying, Social Security will be viable with a few adjustments until the year 2052. Mason said it is important to ensure the long-term success of Social Security because that is the retirement fund for more than half of Americans. Veterans benefits are another area Mason said Hastings has ignored. Mason said it is important for past and present veterans to know they will be supported. Mason also wants to be involved with promoting economic development in the Tri-Cities area and work on the Hanford clean-up plan. Mason said Hastings has long ignored the complaints of the Hanford workers. In the Alderwood Valley, Mason wants to develop ways to promote agriculture while brining in new manufacturing businesses to the area. For the Lower Valley, Mason has a plan similar to Yakima in the promoting the agriculture industry, but he also wants to expand educational opportunities, such as the expansion of the Grandview Alderwood Valley Community College campus. Mason was also livid about the need to promote high wage jobs, which he feels will provide people with financial security, pensions and quality health care. \"The government's job is to partner with business and labor,\" said Mason. Mason said he plans to campaign on the differences he has with Hastings. \"I have a vision for why I am running,\" said Mason. \"Doc Hastings hasn't done his job for the district"}
{"Id":"1101242920558","Title":"Sheriff seeks councilmen's support for county law and justice sales tax","Author":"John Panni","Time":"6/22/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"What was basically a sales pitch to the Alderwood City Council this past Monday night turned into an interesting discussion between Alderwood City Manager Tom Rockford and Alderwood County Sheriff Ken Irwin. Irwin stood before Council this past Monday night to market the need for a sales tax increase he is proposing to help fund law and justice services in Alderwood County. Irwin said he was seeking the support of the Alderwood Council with a letter of recommendation to the Alderwood County commissioners for the measure to be placed before voters this November. The tax calls for an increase of 3/10th of a penny. The tax would be charged on all items sold in Alderwood County with the exception of groceries, medical services and automobile sales and leases. Irwin explained that if a county resident spends 100 shopping, the sales tax will basically amount to an additional 30 being charged. \"That is not a huge tax,\" said Irwin. \"We are going to put it to good use.\" Under the proposal, Alderwood County would receive 60 percent of the revenue from the sales tax, estimated to be 6.7 million in its initial year. The other 40 percent would be split among the 14 cities in Alderwood County on a per capita basis. Yakima would receive the largest part of the funding, an estimated 1.5 million, followed by Alderwood at 279,873. Grandview would gain an additional 165,869 under Irwin's proposal. Mabton would see an additional 40,024 in revenue. \"You could put that to good use in your law and justice system,\" said Irwin. Irwin told Council he was looking for some sort of solution to address decreasing revenue the county is experiencing. Irwin said with the tax cut initiatives voters have passed, the county and cities are operating on shoestring budgets and it is expected to only get worse if voters pass a property tax cut initiative being proposed by Tim Eyman this November. The sheriff's department serves 90,000 residents in Alderwood County. Irwin oversees a 7.9 million budget and has 65 commissioned officers and 34 clerical/dispatch personnel on staff. Alderwood County ranks 37th out of 39th counties in the state in regards to the ratio of officers to residents. Under the proposal, Irwin would hire eight more deputies and two detectives. \"We just plain need a few more law enforcement officers out there,\" said Irwin. \"You can just do so much with the amount of deputy sheriffs we have on the road.\" If voters pass Irwin's proposal, the money will also be used to fund the Alderwood County prosecutor, District Court, Superior Court and juvenile court offices. Irwin told Council Alderwood County plans to dedicate money to re-establishing a Lower Valley District Court. \"It is the whole law and justice system we are trying to help out,\" said Irwin. Irwin said Alderwood County Prosecutor Ron Zirkle has a desk load of felony cases ready to go to trial, but he doesn't have the staff to prosecute. Irwin said this tax would help relieve some of that burden. \"This is a fair tax,\" said Irwin. \"This is spread out amongst the whole population.\" If passed, the life of the tax measure would be for six years. The measure would then be put before voters again, said Irwin. The sheriff said his plan is to keep the public as well informed as possible about where the money from the sales tax is being spent. \"I want that accountability to the public,\" said Irwin. Councilman John Torch had some questions about where the money would go from the tax. Irwin said the sheriff's department would receive about 32 percent of the county's portion of the funds with that amount declining each year. The prosecuting attorney's office would gain about 20 percent with the rest of the money being split by different departments. Torch told Irwin that he felt money from the tax shouldn't be split on a per capita basis. Torch said if one community was generating much more sales tax revenue than another, that city should be reimbursed accordingly. Irwin and Torch did agree that probation services need to be located in the Lower Valley. Torch also wanted the county to put more pressure on the Yakama Nation to provide funding. Alderwood resident Juan Angel, in attendance at last night's meeting, said he was in favor of Irwin's measure and told the sheriff he wished the amount he was requesting was higher than 3/10th of a penny. Rockford, though, wasn't as agreeable with the proposed tax by Irwin. Rockford said he had concerns, especially with the property tax initiative coming before voters, that Irwin's proposal wasn't solving any funding issues. \"It does not solve the underlying revenue problem that exists,\" said Rockford. Rockford said he was worried about Irwin's proposal passing and then in six years voters aren't for it and people end up being put out of work or the sheriff's department is left trying to find another way to fund the positions. Rockford said if Eyman's initiative passes, Alderwood will lose 380,000 next year, which comes out of the general fund. Rockford said the money coming from Irwin's tax proposal wouldn't totally replace all of the money lost. Irwin disagreed with Rockford's observations. Irwin said the people need to decide what sort of law enforcement services they want. \"We have to look the people in the eye and say if you want this level of service then you are going to have to pay,\" said Irwin. Rockford said the state needs to find permanent lines of funding, so city and county agencies aren't constantly looking for ways to fund programs. But, Rockford said he will vote for Irwin's tax because it is the only option he can foresee. \"This is not the solution,\" stated Rockford. \"The problem has not been solved (with this proposal). This system is flawed.\" Irwin said he understood what Rockford was saying, but until the legislature changes the way it does things, there is a need to be proactive to address funding shortfalls. \"Shame on us if we don't take positive steps,\" said Irwin. Mayor Rex Luthor asked staff to do more research on Irwin's proposal and how Eyman's property tax initiative would play into the scenario. Council will address providing its support for Irwin's proposal at a meeting in July. . John Panni can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or email him at mPanni@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101242939886","Title":"Torch asked to resign","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"6/22/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"Long-time Alderwood businessman Pete Sartin stood before the Alderwood City Council this past Monday night asking for the resignation of one of its members. Sartin wanted Councilman John Torch to relinquish his seat following remarks he made at the June 14 meeting about 1960s civil rights activist Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. being an adulterer. Sartin said to Council that if he was sitting in Torch' chair he would resign after making such remarks about Dr. King. Torch rebuffed Sartin's request, saying that his claims about King can be substantiated. Torch also added that he didn't leave last week's Council meeting after making the remarks, so why would he resign his position. \"I refuse to,\" stated Torch. Mayor Rex Luthor then put an end to the discussion, which was taking place right at the end of last night's meeting, calling for Council to adjourn"}
{"Id":"1101242940152","Title":"City Council rejects public hearing request","Author":"John Panni","Time":"6/22/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"Mayor Rex Luthor admitted at the June 12 Alderwood City Council meeting that an official public hearing on a proposed landscaping ordinance was not held as he said it would be. But that didn't stop Council from passing the controversial ordinance, much to the dismay of one of its members, Councilwoman Jennie Angel. Angel brought her concerns before the rest of the Council at this past Monday night's meeting. Angel stated to Council that she had additional information on the landscaping ordinance she wanted to introduce before Councilman Tom Seeger called for the vote last week. When a councilman calls for the vote it basically means all discussion on the matter is closed and Council is being asked to take action on the matter before them. Angel used last night's forum to add some of the additional comments she was looking to touch on last week. Angel asked that Council honor the requests of local businessmen to have a public hearing on the matter. Angel read from minutes where Alderwood Planning Commission Chair Jim Warren had said a public hearing would be held on the matter. Angel also mentioned the acknowledgment of Luthor at the June 12 meeting that a public hearing would be held. \"The request that was made was really important,\" said Angel. \"I think it is very important we hear from the citizenship.\" Angel also read from a list of 14 businesses that long-time Alderwood businessman Pete Sartin presented to Council at the June 12 meeting, who were against the landscaping ordinance. Angel added that four more businesses are opposed to the landscaping ordinance. Council, though, refused to acknowledge Angel's request to provide the public hearing and reconsider the landscaping ordinance. Sartin then took to the podium and expressed his disappointment with the Council. Sartin said that sometimes he admires the Council members for the tough issues they address and then other times he sits there trying to figure out what is going on. Sartin once again reminded Council that the landscaping ordinance will be expensive for local businessmen to implement. Sartin then turned his direction towards Seeger, whom he accused of using his political power to put an end to the discussion that was taking place at the June 12 meeting prior to Council adopting the landscaping ordinance. \"Shame on you,\" said Sartin. \"Shame on all of you who voted for it.\" . John Panni can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or email him at mPanni@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101242940948","Title":"Family embraces challenges on way to achieving dreams","Author":"John Panni","Time":"6/16/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"Envision it and it will happen. That is the guiding force that drove one local family in achieving their dreams of finishing a college education. Mario and Celina Martinez were among the graduates last week to earn a degree from Central Washington University. But the road to achieving their dream was one filled with twists and turns that made the experience of obtaining a college degree even more rewarding. Mrs. Martinez, 28, is formerly Celina Garza, a 1994 graduate of Mabton High School. And by all rights, the Lower Valley native wasn't even supposed to have her high school diploma. Celina is the first in her family, which also consists of five brothers, to earn a college degree. Mario, 29, is from Seattle and is the first in his family of 11 brothers and sisters to receive a college degree. Another notable part of the couple's success is that they went to college full-time while raising three children, Rosalina, 4; Marc, 3; and Berlyn, 9 months. Celina received a Master's degree in family and consumer science education from Central this past weekend. She also earned a Bachelor's degree in the same field from Central in December 2002, and also holds a minor in psychology. Celina gained an Associate of Arts degree in 1997 from Alderwood Valley Community College. Celina is scheduled to teach summer courses at Central in family and consumer science dealing with relationships/personal development. Celina said she became interested in education because she wants to be able to influence people. \"I just like helping people out,\" said Celina. Mario received his Bachelor's degree in secondary industrial education and will be teaching at Wapato High School this fall. Mario wanted to begin a career in education for similar reasons as his wife. Mario said he learned from his father the importance of helping others. One might find children as an obstacle to obtaining an education, but Celina said she never did. One of her children, Marc, was born during finals weeks and her youngest was both during summer quarter last year, but she still managed to keep up her studies. \"There are a lot of resources out there for parents to tap,\" said Celina. Celina said through her childhood she learned the value of hard work. Celina said she decided to pursue an education because she didn't want her family to have to scrap to make a living working in the fields. \"You have to have a vision,\" said Celina. \"You also have to be committed to do it.\" Mario said having three children and continuing an education was a matter of learning to juggle a schedule. Mario said there were plenty of times when he was going on a few hours sleep, wondering if he was going to make it through the day. It was during those times he would just look at his children and see them smile to realize everything was going to turn out alright. Mario added anything worth attaining in life is going to be difficult and have its obstacles. \"Those bumps in the road provide greater meaning,\" said Mario. \"The best investment a person can make is in yourself.\" Mario said he always knew he was going to earn his college degree, but he took a different road than others. He went to college for a few years, attending the University of Puget Sound and CWU before leaving to head back to the Seattle area, where he started a non-profit organization, the Higher Vision Foundation, which worked with area high schools on promoting different aspects of education. After earning her Associate's degree, Celina went to Heritage College to further her education, but left after a year. \"I decided I wanted to go experience something else than what was in the Valley,\" said Celina. Celina moved to the west side of the state, where she met her husband, and the two have been together ever since, married for the past five years. But Celina, like her husband, never doubted she would finish her education. \"We had to get our education,\" said Celina. Celina said receiving her Master's degree this past weekend was very meaningful. \"Education has always been meaningful to me,\" said Celina. Even though she is finished with her classroom education now, Celina looks at every day as being in the classroom. \"Learning is a lifelong process,\" said Celina. \"I am going to keep learning regardless of where I am.\" Mario also feels a sense of fulfillment in getting his college degree this past weekend. \"It has been both a marathon and a sprint for me,\" said Mario. Mario believes his degree honors his family, who like his wife's worked in the fields. \"This degree not only belongs to me, but all of our ancestors,\" said Mario. \"I am more proud for all of them than myself.\" Mario plans to return to college to earn Master's and Doctorate's degrees. \"This is just the first step,\" said Mario. Through all of the past years of hard work, Mario said the most rewarding part is watching his wife and how she has grown. \"I know she is not going to stop,\" said Mario. \"He was pretty amazing when I first met him,\" said Celina. \"His goals were very high. He is one of the reasons why I am where I am at.\" Both Celina and Mario want to encourage people who may think they can't finish their education because they have children or might be too old or think they just can't do it, to reconsider. \"It has been an adventure,\" Said Celina. \"We have had our ups and downs. We always had that vision in our heads. Follow your dreams. Imagine it happening. Put in the effort"}
{"Id":"1101242941183","Title":"South First Street to be renamed after Reagan","Author":"John Panni","Time":"6/15/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"A discussion at last night's Alderwood City Council meeting on plans to rename South First Street took a sharp detour that ended up with one councilman questioning the character of famed civil rights leader Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Councilman John Torch brought before Council last night the issue of renaming South First Street \"Ronald Reagan Parkway,\" following the massive million dollar reconstruction project scheduled to start late this year. But on the same note, it was Torch who brought out some fiery sentiments in the audience when he referred to Dr. King as an adulterer. Torch said he was proposing the idea of renaming South First Street in honor of the former president who died earlier this month, following a decade long battle with Alzheimer's Disease, as a fitting tribute to a past president he felt was a great man. \"I think it is a very good choice,\" added Councilman Tom Seeger. \"I think it is the least we can do.\" Seeger said renaming South First Street in honor of the late president wouldn't affect very many people. Seeger noted some of the accomplishments of Reagan, such as having a major part in ending communism, as a reason the city should move forward with renaming South First Street. Mayor Rex Luthor shared with Council some input he received over the weekend from Frances Sooner, who was representing a group of eight senior citizens. Sooner requested on behalf of the group that the city doesn't move forward with the proposed name change. Sooner suggested renaming a new development on Mabton Road in honor of the former president. The mayor said Sooner indicated to him it would be hard for senior citizens to remember the name of a new street. Councilwoman Jennie Angel added some of the public comment she had received over the weekend. Angel said many citizens she spoke with were in favor of naming a street after Reagan, just not South First Street. Angel said she agreed with the idea, but just felt it should be in a new development. Torch said he also received comments from several people who were in favor of the project. Torch also talked about some ideas he received about forming a list of city pioneers that can be utilized when the opportunity comes to name new streets or buildings. Torch said he felt renaming South First Street would make a positive statement about the community and also be patriotic for the city. Seeger added his comments to the mix, saying nearly 20 people had contacted him who were in favor of the idea. Seeger even suggested the possibility the city might be able to obtain a sign on the interstate highlighting the name of the new road. Angel interjected and said she was very much in favor of creating a list of pioneer names to utilize later. She suggested adding such noted activists as Cesar Chavez and King. Torch, though, fired right back, saying he wouldn't want King to be recognized because he is a known adulterer. The statement brought the ire of Martin Campbell, a local resident in attendance last night, who popped up out of his seat and took the podium, telling Torch he couldn't understand why he would make a comment such as that one. Campbell noted some of the less than spectacular things Reagan did as president, such as selling weapons to Iran. Campbell agreed that Reagan was a great American, but didn't quite know yet where his place would be in history as president. Campbell noted the accomplishments of King. \"He got us through a very terrible period,\" said Campbell, referring to the civil rights uprising of the 1960s. Local resident Carol Stone, a regular at city council meetings, recommended the Council wait a year to consider renaming South First Street. She felt the city shouldn't do it now because it was reacting to the death of the president. Another local resident in attendance last night, Don Outhet, said he felt the city should get the input of local residents before changing the street name, especially the people in the area of South First Street. \"Before you make a change, check with the property owners,\" said Outhet. \"If they are in agreement with it, fine.\" Mark Tucker of PW Pipe, who was at last night's meeting, said the only effect changing the street would have on his business would be financial. Tucker said the company has extensive amounts of letter heads and other items with their current address on it. Luthor expressed his reservations about renaming existing streets. Seeger disagreed with the mayor and some of the comments expressed during the discussion. Seeger said history has proven Reagan as a great man. \"I am grateful to the man,\" said Seeger. \"It is good for the city. It is going to make a statement for the rebuilding we are doing.\" In the end, the Council voted 4-2 to move forward with plans to rename South First Street \"Ronald Reagan Parkway.\" Luthor and Angel voted against the measure. Councilman Jim Sarducci was absent from last night's meeting. . John Panni can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or email him at mPanni@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101242941448","Title":"Landscaping ordinance OK'd despite opposition","Author":"John Panni","Time":"6/15/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"A new landscaping ordinance for commercial entities the Alderwood City Council has wanted to implement has been controversial since it was first introduced a couple of years ago. Last night was no different, but the Council went ahead and approved a condensed version of it anyway. The Council voted 4-2 to pass the landscaping ordinance, with Mayor Rex Luthor and Councilwoman Jennie Angel going against the measure. Shortly following the vote, Angel inexplicably left the Council meeting. \"This is the product of several months of hard work,\" said Alderwood Assistant City Manager/City Attorney Bruce Rinz at Monday night's Council meeting. Rinz worked with the Alderwood Planning Commission on redefining the landscaping ordinance, which was about 25 pages in length when it was initially proposed. The ordinance approved by Council last night is just under five pages in length, outlining specific criteria new commercial development in Alderwood will have to meet. Rinz said that the ordinance does have a provision that would make existing businesses that undergo an expansion or alteration to meet the new landscaping requirements. This would only apply when a remodel or expansion would be equal to or greater than 50 percent of the value of the existing business. The ordinance also outlines the general landscaping requirements for parking areas at a business. The ordinance was modified from 15 percent landscaping of parking areas to 10 percent. The landscaping ordinance also outlines such areas as building perimeters, plant materials, fencing and walls, and enforcement. Rinz said the ordinance is scheduled to take effect July 1. Rinz noted one of the differences with this ordinance before Council and past ones is the amount of flexibility it provides. Rinz said during the public hearing process, the planning commission kept hearing from business owners and the rest of the public the need to have a flexible ordinance, which allows developers to try different things. Rinz said he believes this ordinance provides the needed flexibility. However, Angel didn't share the same enthusiasm Rinz had for the ordinance. Angel said she didn't see the need for such an ordinance, a stance she has taken in the past with the issue. Angel said the businesses that are coming to town are doing a fine job of sprucing up their place. She suggested the Council not pass the ordinance because of the shape of the economy. Angel added that she is more worried about bringing new business into town then necessarily having them meet a set list of landscaping standards. \"I really feel strongly this is not the time,\" said Angel. \"We are living in hard times right now.\" Angel's opinion met with some opposition from her fellow councilmen. Councilman John Torch said the ordinance holds a high standard for businesses to meet. He noted that such businesses as Jack-in-the-Box didn't bat an eyelash at meeting city landscaping requirements before. Torch said he would actually like to see the landscaping ordinance before council more stringent to help meet the future commercial development needs of the city. \"In the next five to 10 years, this community is going to see huge growth,\" said Torch. City Manager Tom Rockford touched on the need for a landscaping ordinance. He said a new business is going in along Alderwood Valley Highway. The business is constructing a new building, but developers didn't put in enough frontage to develop landscaping. Rockford said the new building will be in the community for several decades to come, but there are no landscaping requirements in place to make that an attractive location. Rockford said landscaping is such a minimal expense when starting a business and in the end it will only help the owner. Angel jabbed back, disagreeing with Rockford. \"The good thing is there will be a business there,\" said Angel. Angel felt burdening business owners with additional requirements will only diminish development. Councilman Tom Seeger voiced no opposition to the ordinance. Seeger said it is a very minimal ordinance, asking developers to meet few standards. Seeger said it doesn't help the community to not have in place any standards for business owners to meet. \"I am a businessman and to be in business it costs money,\" said Seeger. Angel asked what other cities are doing concerning landscaping requirements. Councilman Alex de la Cruz, who was on the planning commission when the landscaping ordinance was initially proposed, said communities such as Moses Lake, Othello, Yakima and Pasco have in place similar landscaping ordinances which the planning commission reviewed at the time. Luthor felt the city wasn't ready for a landscaping ordinance. \"I can't get past the bump in the road that this is government regulating landscaping,\" said Luthor. Luthor said he thought such measures should be regulated by the commercial sector of the community. Mayor Pro-tem George Greenway agreed with the mayor, but said the city does need some sort of guidelines in place. Greenway said businesses with banners, overflowing garbage dumpsters and bars on their windows don't make the community attractive for further economic development. \"These are things telling people Alderwood isn't a good place,\" said Greenway. Local business owner Gene Bliesner said hadn't read the entire ordinance, but from what he scanned it seemed like a much more workable solution than previous proposed ordinances. Another local business owner, Pete Sartin, unloaded on the Council. Sartin took the mayor to task, saying that he had promised there would be a public meeting before Council on the matter before a vote was taken. Sartin also said his request to have business owners and developers before the planning commission was denied. Sartin presented Council with a list of 14 local business owners who weren't in favor of the ordinance and would like to have further discussions with the Council and planning commission. \"We don't want you guys telling us what we have to do,\" said Sartin. Business owners on the list include Alderwood Tire Factory, C Speck Motors, R.E. Powell Distributing, Curfman Steel Corp and Andrus & Roberts. The mayor apologized for not having an official public hearing notice on the issue, but did add that citizens were being given the opportunity to comment on the matter now. Local resident Martin Campbell encouraged the Council to not pass the ordinance without receiving more public input. Campbell, who doesn't own commercial property, said he has always heard during various discussions that it was Council who wanted the landscaping ordinance, in particular Councilmen George Greenway, Tom Seeger and John Torch. \"We (the citizens and business owners) were never able to debate the city councilmen who were pushing this,\" said Campbell. . John Panni can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or email him at mPanni@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101242941683","Title":"City does away with ambulance household tax","Author":"John Panni","Time":"6/11/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"If you paid your water bill recently, you might have noticed you didn't have to dig quite as deeply into your pocket. That's is because the City of Alderwood has discontinued a 3 fee to help pay for the community's ambulance service. Alderwood City Manager Tom Rockford said the city decided to discontinue the ambulance household tax, which was being billed monthly as part of residents' water bills because of a state Supreme Court ruling that occurred against the City of Kennewick. The ruling involved an apartment owner who challenged the city's right to implement the fee. The Supreme Court ruled that the ambulance tax Kennewick had was unconstitutional, resulting in the city repealing the tax. \"Wisdom said we should stop since ours was adopted under the same framework,\" said Rockford. Several cities have the ambulance tax, said Rockford. He said that the state legislature allowed cities to put such a measure before voters. Alderwood has had the ambulance tax since October 1989. The money from the tax generates about 140,000 per year. The money is used to help subsidize city ambulance service. \"It goes towards all kinds of expenses,\" said Rockford. Right now, Rockford is busy looking at ways to address the Supreme Court's ruling. Rockford said the ruling provided some guidance for cities, but no one is really sure why the state high court banned the tax. Rockford said usually it is easy to figure out the direction the Supreme Court wants to take on the ruling it hands down. \"This is one where I just don't get it,\" said Rockford. \"Everybody is just kind of scratching their heads.\" Rockford is expecting to have a recommendation before Council on how to address the issue within the next three weeks. To make up for the shortfall in revenue from the tax, which is between 7-9,000 per month, Rockford said the city will turn to a reserve fund within the fire department budget if needed. The reserve is rather healthy at about 250,000, but Rockford said that money can't be tapped for long because it is used to help purchase such items as ambulances and other needed equipment. Rockford said it is important for the city to address this loss of tax revenue. The city already subsidizes the ambulance service, said Rockford, and can't really afford to provide much more. Later in the year, Rockford said the issue of how to operate the ambulance service will come before Council, but right now he is trying to figure out a way to address the loss of revenue from suspending the utility tax. Rockford, though, wants to assure residents that they will continue to have a quality, uninterrupted ambulance service. \"The ambulance service will continue as it has,\" said Rockford. \"We need to fix this (revenue problem). It is a service that has to be available"}
{"Id":"1101242942511","Title":"Citizens expressed concern about yard upkeep","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"6/10/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"Local resident Bob Johnson came before the Alderwood City Council this past Monday night to share some concerns he had about people maintaining their yards. Johnson said he has noticed several homes and a couple of businesses in the community that have weeds and unkept lawns. Johnson said he wasn't sure of the amount of time residents or business owners had to comply after being contacted by Property Maintenance Facilitator Bill Eikenbary before they received a ticket. Johnson said he wants the city to look at some way of speeding up the process between warning people and citing them. Mayor Rex Luthor said he would have city staff look into the matter and come back with a report"}
{"Id":"1101242961808","Title":"Mabton VFW, food bank at odds","Author":"Mel Sacher","Time":"6/10/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"MABTON - Four non-profit organizations in Mabton share a 1910 brick structure in need of some serious TLC. A church, Alcoholics Anonymous and the Mabton Food Bank meet in the Mabton Veterans of Foreign Wars Post, a building that, according to State Assistant Quartermaster Greg Schlieve, is in need of a roof and new gravel, among other things, to keep its insurance. \"We realized that we had about 2,500 in repairs to make if we do all the work,\" said Schlieve, adding that there was only 18 in the bank. He said that extra expenses are incurred because the food bank is located in the building, citing the extra garbage can, electricity to run freezers and liability insurance carried by the charter since the food bank is under the VFWs non-profit number. He said in the past the VFW wanted to support the food bank so strongly that it didn't make a cent on rent. \"We can't even buy stamps to run our business on what we make,\" said Schlieve, who is one of group trying to save the Mabton VFW charter. In efforts to raise the needed funds, letters were sent out to the three organizations using the building, announcing the rent would be raised. Co-coordinator of the Mabton Food Bank, Vera Zavala, said with the rent increase one-third of the money the food bank receives annually from the United Way will be eaten up. Zavala said in the three years she has been running the food bank along with other volunteers, she has made several repairs to the inside of the building, including replacing some of the windows and painting the floor of the portion of the building she frequently uses. They have also cleaned the common areas of the building and pulled weeds and cleaned up the parking lot, she said. Zavala added she has repeatedly complained about some of the conditions of the building, including the leaky roof, to no avail. She said the leaks in the building have ruined her stores of rice and beans. She said the price is too steep for the food bank, which feeds about 300 families a month. Rent went from 170 a month to 250 per month. \"I'm here to help people who need help,\" she said. She said that the food bank had a large dumpster brought in, which was necessary to run the food bank. She said their rent was increased when the dumpster was brought to the building. Zavala said the city of Mabton is currently trying to find a different location for the food bank to be housed. City of Mabton officials signed a letter supporting the efforts to keep the VFW charter, according to City Administrator Ildia Jackson. \"When we gave them a letter of support they had made, what I feel, was a commitment to keeping the food bank open,\" said Jackson. Jackson said that the tone of the letter the VFW sent to the food bank was \"totally unnecessary.\" \"The VFW is acting as if the food bank has been an inconvenience to the veterans and led to hardship. \"They're asking for one-third of the money from United Way, which should be going back to the people,\" Jackson added. Mabton Mayor David Conradt was also disappointed in the way the food bank is being treated. \"This is an organization in our city that, with volunteers, is providing food for those in need in our town,\" said Conradt. \"They're (the VFW) increasing rent on something that does not make money.\" He added that the letter to the food bank was \"pretty blunt\" and wondered why a volunteer group, such as a food bank, should be charged rent at all. Schlieve said without repairs to the building the charter would lose its insurance, shutting the building down. \"An insurance company came and inspected our property and said it was unsafe,\" said Schlieve. He said rent was raised for all users of the building and that members' dues were raised 50 percent. \"If we go under, they all go under,\" he said. \"They've already said there isn't any other place in Mabton where they can meet.\" He said the members of the Mabton post will have to get back into the fund-raising mode to raise money for the group. When the post was first in trouble of losing its charter last November, Schlieve said there were about 13 members of the organization. Now, he said there are about 39, about half of which live in Mabton. Schlieve said this past spring they held elections, but none of the Mabton members, who are mostly veterans from World War II and the Korean War, wanted to run for office. \"They said sell the building,\" said Schlieve. He added that some of the new members, not the old ones from Mabton, are pitching in 100 each to help save the post, so they can help veterans. \"We want to do the work we do as the VFW and help the veterans in the community financially and with other needs,\" he said. Schlieve said the food bank isn't the only group having a difficult time coming up with the extra rent money. He said that if the groups are unable to continue to rent it would be bad for the post, which borrowed 2,000 from a member to get repairs underway. \"If any were to pull out I think that would be the end of the post,\" he said"}
{"Id":"1101242962074","Title":"City officials still undecided on where to build skate park","Author":"John Panni","Time":"6/10/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"At this last Monday night's meeting, the Alderwood City Council moved forward with a grant application process to help fund the construction of a skate park at SunnyView Park. Alderwood Parks and Recreation Director Don Stiles is preparing a 66,500 grant application to the Interagency Committee for Outdoor Recreation. If the city is successful in obtaining the grant it will use the money to help construct a skate park at SunnyView Park. But, the Council is not entirely sold on building the skate park at SunnyView, which the city took possession of from Alderwood County recently. At its May meeting, the Council suggested the possibility of moving the skate park to South Hill Park to complement the newly built community center and to make the facility easier for local youths to access. During the May meeting, it was determined staff would look into the possibility of moving the skate park to South Hill on the site of the battered tennis court facilities. At this past Monday night's meeting, Stiles informed Council that changing the site of the skate park could ruin the city's chances of obtaining the grant it is applying for. Stiles also told Council the city would still have to place the tennis courts at some other location in town to ensure such a facility was in its system. Stiles is scheduled to make his presentation to the Interagency Committee for Outdoor Recreation on June 17. Stiles said too much work has gone into the grant application to change things now. Stiles did say there is the possibility the city could change the location of the skate park after it obtained the grant, but added he was saying that with no certainty. The parks director added that Alderwood along with the City of Grandview and Alderwood County have been working on developing the skate park for six years and he doesn't want to see the opportunity slip away. Councilwoman Jennie Angel expressed a change of heart this past Monday, saying she talked with several youngsters the previous week and asked them where they want to see the skate park. She said the youngsters told her South Hill Park because it would be easier for them to get there. Stiles informed Council that it would more than likely have to return some of the money that was donated by Grandview if the site was switched to South Hill Park. Stiles said money was donated by different entities in Grandview to help fund the skate park at Sunny View Park. Stiles has already spoken with several people in Grandview who have said they want their money back if the skate park goes to South Hill Park. Councilman John Torch suggested the city use money from other avenues to fund any shortfall with the skate park if people from Grandview want their money back. Ellen Bird, who sits on the Alderwood Parks and Recreation Commission, felt something needs to be done now to build the skate park. \"It is high time we put up or shut up,\" said Bird. \"We have got the chance to get this money. Let's not ding around.\" Councilman Tom Seeger said he could see both sides of the issue. Vleiger said he was working around a skate park a while ago and found them to be really noisy. He said the noise from a skate park would more than likely disrupt the residents living at South Hill Park. Seeger said he felt the city was inviting problems by having the skate park at SunnyView Park, where there would be no supervision. Councilman Jim Sarducci wanted the input of Police Chief Ted Mana and Fire Chief Jim Stanton on their response times to both sites. Mana said the police department wouldn't be able to oversee the skate park to ensure there are no problems. Mana said skate parks usually have few problems requiring the police. Stanton said his department's response time would double if the skate park was at SunnyView Park, compared to South Hill. Responding to some concerns from council members about liability, Assistant City Manager/City Attorney Bruce Rinz said the city can only be held liable if officials knew there was a problem and did nothing to fix it. City Manager Tom Rockford said the key to liability is ensuring something is built properly and well maintained. Rockford, who has dealt with skate park issues in other communities he has worked in, said he has found such facilities to be a valuable asset to the area. Mayor Pro-tem George Greenway was a bit distressed about hearing the news that people from Grandview would want back the money they donated to the skate park if it was moved to South Hill Park. Greenway said he felt the skate park would receive much more use if it was in town, compared to being out in the middle of the two area communities. The possibility exists that if Alderwood is successful in landing the 66,500 grant, it may try to switch sites to South Hill Park"}
{"Id":"1101242962308","Title":"Obituaries","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"6/10/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"WAYNE RICHARD POWELL WAYNE RICHARD POWELL Wayne Richard Powell, 40, of Moxee passed away Monday, June 7, 2004, of an apparent massive heart attack. He was born Dec. 31, 1963 in Prosser, the youngest of eight children of Richard and Mary Powell. He graduated from Grandview High School in 1982 and then moved to Yakima. There, Wayne met and eventually married Tammy Sare in 1990. Shortly after they moved to Moxee, where they have lived for the last 12 years. Wayne was a good and honest person, a devoted and loving family man and to many, many people a good friend. He loved spending time with his family, especially his son, Bryan. He enjoyed gardening, camping, working in his shop and parachuting. His hobby was wood crafting, at which he excelled. Wood crafting was Wayne s way of showing off his creative side, which he loved to share with his family and friends. For the past seven years Wayne was also an intricate pat of Six Chuter, Inc. Powered Parachutes. As much as Wayne enjoyed working with wood he found that working with aluminum and steel also satisfied his creative side. In his job Wayne touched so many people around the country with his helpfulness and his constant jovial attitude. He truly enjoyed his job. Wayne was a valuable contributor to the design and building of the aircraft. He enjoyed flying and participating in the weekend fly-ins throughout the states. Wayne was a loving husband, father, son, brother, uncle, son-in-law, brother-in-law and friend. Wayne was the one everyone knew they could count on. He was always the first to be there to offer his help to anyone. He had a quick wit, a quick smile and always the first one to laugh at his own jokes; and always able to find the humor no matter what the situation. One of Wayne s favorite quips., which embodies both his humor and his life was if you aren t living life on the edge, you re taking up too much space! Wayne will be greatly missed by his family, extended family, friends, co-workers and all who knew him. He is survived by his wife and son, Tammy and Bryan, both of Moxee; his mother, Mary Powell of Grandview; two brothers, Raymund Powell of Sacramento, Calif. and William Powell of Colorado Springs, Colo.; four sisters, Linda Goetz of Danville, Calif., Maxine Tull of Yakima, Janice Kamlschke of Seattle and Barbara Riel of Moxee; and many nieces and nephews. He was preceded in death by his father, Richard L. Powell; and sister, Teresa Powell. Viewing will be held Thursday, June 10, 2004, from 10 a.m. to 8 p.m. at Alderwood chapel of Valley Hills Funeral Home. Recitation of the rosary will begin at 7 p.m. Mass of Christian Burial will be held Friday, June 11, 2004, at 10:30 a.m. at Blessed Sacrement Catholic Church, Grandview. Interment will follow in Grandview Cemetery. In lieu of flowers the family has set up a benevolent college fund for Wayne s 13-year-old son, Bryan. Donations may be sent to Valley Hills Funeral Home, 2600 Business Lane, Yakima, WA 98901. Wayne, you are barely gone and already we miss you"}
{"Id":"1101242962792","Title":"Alderwood City Council Briefs","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"6/9/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"1-Column South First Street presentation scheduled to come before Council A report from engineering firm Gray & Osborne will be one of the highlights on the Monday, June 14, Alderwood City Council agenda. Gray & Osborne will provide Council with a report on information gathered from a recent public meeting involving community input for the South First Street road improvement project. Also coming before Council on June 14 will be a report on the city's water comprehensive plan, including information concerning cross connections. Council will also hear a report on the new International Building Code that has to be adopted by July 1. Councilman Jim Sarducci will provide a report on an issue surrounding a law enforcement tax Alderwood County Sheriff Ken Irwin wants to put before voters. Council will also consider a street closure request along Fifth Street on July 3, which is being done as part of the community's Fourth of July celebration. Hand print project to done June 19 Carol Stone will finally see a long-standing community project she has been wanting to undertake come to fruition. Stone provided Council this past Monday night with a report on her hand print project along the guardrail just outside of Central Park. Stone said the guardrail is scheduled to be scrapped and pressure washed later this week. The guardrail will then be painted white this coming Monday. The actual hand print event will take place Saturday, June 19, from 9 to 11 a.m. At that time, members from the community are encouraged to come and place their hand print on the guardrail as a symbol of community unity"}
{"Id":"1101242963058","Title":"Forum","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"6/9/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"1-Column U.S. presidency I was catching up on the newspapers over the weekend and read \"Open Mike\" (6-2-04), titled \"Was life really that bad with Bill as president?\" I thought that perhaps this was a joke, so I read his personal column. Maybe that is all Mike wanted to happen, was to get readers and start controversy. Our upcoming presidential election is not a joke, and yes, living under Clinton was bad. Being leader of the free world is not just a \"gig to play.\" I did not enjoy the decision of 2000. Does anyone remember Gore had called and conceded the election? I do. For the sake of the system and country, he should have stood by his word, but instead the Democrats hoped for the usual victory in the courts. This brings me to one of many reasons to take this election seriously. It is the issue of tyranny of the judiciary. Certain appointed (not elected) federal judges are sending down decisions unraveling the fabric of our country. All it takes is one judge to take \"Under God\" out of our pledge of allegiance, halt the passed and signed partial birth abortion ban and mandate same sex marriage. It does not make news, but the Democrats in the Senate have obstructed many of President Bush's nominees for federal judgeships. Mike asks, \"Why not give Hillary a chance?\" That, indeed, is scary. There are plenty of books on the market delineating how power hungry this woman is. In this terror-torn world, if ever she were elected, I would fear it would be our last free election. Mr. Panni's statement about not being better off under Bush is simply not true. Bush is standing tall against the terrorist. He has kept us safe! He is restoring respect for the office of Presidency. He actually knows the difference between good and evil, and calling us as a nation to stand for good. Yes, I am sorry, that includes morality. A good leader stands up against terrorists, protects the unborn and the innocent, and reveres God. We had none of that under the not so good times under Bill. In addition, I dare say we would not have good leadership under Kerry. In reality, it is the John Pannis of our country who will decide the election the swing voter. The 20 percent of registered voters who are undecided and vote but who really aren't informed, do not care and think it is a joke or really doesn't matter. However, their vote will count, as evidenced in 2000. /s/ Deon Herndon, Alderwood"}
{"Id":"1101242963292","Title":"Obituaries","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"6/9/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"ELLEN NEWHOUSE DANLEY ELLEN NEWHOUSE DANLEY Ellen Newhouse Danley, 78, of Willows, Calif. passed away Wednesday, May 26, 2004, in Willows. She was born April 12, 1922, in Mabton. She was the third of 10 children in the family of Dutch pioneers, John and Tina Newhouse. She graduated from Alderwood High School. She received her RN from St. Elizabeth School of Nursing in Yakima. She received a certificate in public health nursing from the University of Washington. She continued her education in later years receiving her credentials in school nursing and earning a Bachelor of Science, both from CSU, Chico, Calif. Near the end of World War II, Ellen served as a lieutenant in the Army Corps. She then moved to Willows to work as the Glen County School nurse, a position she held until 1951. Ellen married Carmon Danley in 1947 and raised four children. Ellen was the school nurse for the Willows Unified School District. She was a past or current member of Delta Kappa Gamma, the Afternoon Club, the First Lutheran Church of Willows LWML, Faith Bible Church of Willows and Bible Study Fellowship. She enjoyed traveling, gardening, flower arranging, country living, reading, current events and the fine art of conversation. Ellen is survived by her husband of 56 years, Newland Carmon Danley; two daughters, Jan Williams and husband, Than, and Loree Stephen and husband, Thad, all of Willows; two sons, Joel Danley and wife, Jenycce, and Alan Danley and wife, Lee Andrea, of Delevan, Calif. She is also survived by her brothers, Alfred and John E. Newhouse, both of Alderwood and Wayne Newhouse of Lynnwood; one sister, Mary Jane Swynenburg of Tennessee; 11 grandchildren; three great-grandchildren; and numerous close friends. She was preceeded in death by four brothers; Albert in 1981, David in 1997, Melvin in 1999 and Irving in 2001; and one sister, Berry Bechtold in 2001. Services were held Friday, June 4, 2004, at the Opengate Christian Fellowship in Willows. Memorial contributions may be made to the ministry of Bill and Robin Harris who are serving in Russia with the Inter Act Ministries and sent in care of the Faith Bible Church, 403 Vine St. , Willows, Calif., 95988. J. EDWIN WALLER J. Edwin Ed Waller, 88, of Yakima went to be with his Lord and Saviour, Wednesday, June 2, 2004, at Crescent Convalescent Center. Ed was born Dec. 20, 1915, in Ephrata, to Jean and Ida (Wyles) Waller. He was raised and educated in Wenatchee and graduated from Wenatchee High School. He then attended business school. Ed worked for the Wenatchee Daily World for 15 years, starting with delivering newspapers and working his way up to a typesetter. Ed moved to Alderwood in 1944 and went into partnership with his two brothers, Melvin and Homer, in the Herrett Trucking Company. After 18 years, he left Herrett Trucking and moved to Bellingham, where he owned and operated a Coast to Coast Hardware store. Years later, he moved to Missoula, Mont. and was manager of the wholesale department of the Western Montana Wholesale Grocery. In 1977 he moved to Juneton, Idaho, where he worked for his brother, Melvin, at Zirbel Trucking Company as a foreman for 10 years before retiring and moving to Yakima. Ed was deeply loved and admired by his family and friends. He was a very hard working man, and a loving husband, father and grandfather. He will always be well remembered in our hearts. We will miss him. Ed is survived by his loving wife of 58 years, Arlene (Paradis) Waller of Yakima; two daughters, Kathy (Stan) Griffin of Olympia and Susan (Lou) Morales of Camano Island; three sons, Melvin Buddy Waller of Seattle, Jim (Glenda) Waller of Greenleaf, Idaho and Peter (Julie) Waller of Selah; 12 grandchildren; one great-grandson; one brother, Homer Waller of Alderwood; and one sister, Ruth Main of Little Rock, Ark. Ed was preceded in death by his parents, Jean and Ida Waller; and a brother, Melvin Waller. At his request, no funeral services will be held. In lieu of flowers, memorials may be made to Child Evangelism Fellowship, in care of Langevin-Mussetter Funeral Home, 1010 W. Yakima Avenue, Yakima, 98902"}
{"Id":"1101242984652","Title":"Story Time","Author":"Bob Story","Time":"6/4/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"I'm in agreement with President Bush on most issues he addresses. The exception to the rule, though, is his stance on opening up our borders to illegal immigrants. To put it bluntly, it's costing us Americans too much money. What's going on in Arizona right now serves as a prime example why we need to close down our borders to the hordes that are making their way into this country on a daily basis. A report released recently by the Federation for American Immigration Reform (FAIR), entitled \"The Costs of Illegal Immigration to Arizonans,\" shows a nearly nine-fold increase in the costs of illegal immigration during the past decade. The burden on Arizona's taxpayers, growing at a far too rapid pace, is estimated at 700 a year in additional costs to every native-born head of household in that state. Right now, Arizona is the prime region for illegal immigrants to nestle in and call home. It used to be California. I think most everyone knows what the influx of illegal immigration did to that state's budget. Washington state isn't affected as drastically as California or Arizona, but make no mistake, we Washingtonians are also bearing our share of the costs. FAIR's report details that Arizonans are paying approximately 1.3 billion annually to fund this wave of illegal immigrants. The biggest chunk of that, about 810 million, goes towards providing education to the illegal aliens and their children. Health care for illegal immigrants, which is threatening to bankrupt numerous hospitals and clinics in Arizona, totals about 400 million a year. It is estimated another 80 million is spent in Arizona each year on incarcerating illegal aliens. As we all know from first-hand knowledge here, many of these illegals do not take the time to learn the laws of our country before jumping across the border to take up residence here. The report by FAIR also details that only a fraction of the 1.3 billion in annual costs, about 257 million, is offset by what illegal aliens pay in taxes to Arizona. What's even more alarming than the total amount of money being spent on these illegal aliens is the rate at which these costs are growing. Says Jack Martin, who authored the report for FAIR: \"Perhaps even more astounding than the 1.3 billion a year that uncontrolled illegal immigration is costing Arizona is the rate at which those costs are increasing. \"Between 1996 and 2000, the illegal alien population of Arizona grew by a staggering 150 percent, and that rate of increase has not abated,\" Martin continues. Simply put, the federal government, with Bush leading the charge, needs to take steps to stop this flow of illegal immigration. \"While Arizona has become the new illegal gateway to America, and Arizonans have been forced to bear the staggering costs of our failed immigration policy, the state's elected representatives in Washington D.C. have, ironically, been at the forefront of efforts to grant amnesty to millions of illegal aliens and their families,\" Martin says. Martin predicts, quite accurately I believe, that the 1.3 billion Arizona taxpayers are paying now is just a taste of what is to come if the nation doesn't immediately begin enforcing America's immigration laws. And it will only get worse if our elected officials enact the amnesty proposals that Bush advocates. I'm as much an humanitarian as the next guy. But we need to take care of our own first, before spending billions of dollars on folks who legally shouldn't be in this country. Our top priorities should be feeding and educating Americans. Once that has been accomplished, to the extent where poverty has been wiped out in this country, then let's look at our neighbors across the border and try to give them a hand. . Bob Story,can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or e-mail him at bstory@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101242985121","Title":"Forum","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"6/2/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"1-Column Car show On behalf of the Classic Knights Car Club and the Grandview Chamber of Commerce, we would like to thank everyone who in any way helped to make the Classic Knights car show such a success this past Saturday. Many thanks to all those who sponsored trophies, to all the businesses who so generously donated items for both the \"goody bags\" and the door prizes, and a special thanks to Mr. Closner's Grandview High School class for filling the bags. We'd also like to thank the Lower Valley communities for all their support, and the Alderwood Daily News, Grandview Herald and Prosser Record Bulletin for their excellent promotional stories. To all the participants, thanks for bringing your beautiful vehicles and we hope you enjoyed yourself enough to return next year. /s/ Lucy and Merv Dykstra, Grandview Will they be remembered? This past weekend is the first in 56 years I have decorated graves of family and friends without my mom along to share memories as we go about our yearly journey. Each year the numbers have grown, more cemeteries to visit, as well. I am a baby boomer, being born after World War II, the oldest of my cousins. I still have my mom, but she is very ill, so was unable to go for the first time in 74 years. We are fortunate that we each have flowers in our yards, so each bouquet is filled with color and love; as well as memories of each and every person who has touched our lives. Saturday, my husband, daughter and I went out to put flags on the graves of veterans with other volunteers, then we were treated to breakfast by the Ladies Auxiliary of the VFW. What a sight to see, so many volunteers, most with touches of gray and white hair, doing this in remembrance of all those heroes who served our country. It made me think about the generations who are in their 30's, 40's, and all the children even younger. Will they be devoted, committed and carry on the traditions of Memorial Day that I grew up learning the importance of: respect, compassion and sharing? Monday evening, we removed all the flags, put them away until next year, but remember those who have fought and died for our freedoms. I know that as long as I am alive I will continue to decorate the final resting place of all those that I can, and hope that my family will continue the tradition. /s/ Carol Stone, Alderwood Equestrian fund-raiser The Back Country Horsemen of Washington would like to thank all the businesses that donated items for our fund-raiser May 14-16: Mid-Valley Chrysler, Outback Steakhouse, Apex Cellars, Les Schwab, RDO Farm Equipment, Harold's Mower Repair, Hall's Chevrolet, Catalina's Hair Care, Food Pavillion, Rite-Aide, Aqua Tropics, Prosser Food Depot, Tom Denchel Ford, Catch Pen, Bleyhl's Farm Service, Horse Heaven Hills, Old Country Buffet, Russell Chism, Big R Store, Jumpstart Espresso, I-Hop Restaurant, M&E Grain, Desert Eagle Ranch, Chukker Cherries, Dale Beck Jewelery, Welco Farm Supply and several silent donors. It's much appreciated. /s/ Marti Chism, Alderwood"}
{"Id":"1101242985339","Title":"Open Mike","Author":"John Panni","Time":"6/2/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"I was going to write about all of the gruesome things I have read about pregnancy and why women would want to go through such a process. But instead I am opting to write about another such painful process, but with not quite as a rewarding outcome-the presidential election. This coming November we will once again go to the polls to decide many races, most notably the presidency. It was such fun last time with the ever-thrilling, blow-by-blow moment of the heated contest between George Bush and Al Gore. That election taught us one important thing that will make us all better citizens-never leave Chad hanging. Who didn't enjoy MSNBC's blow-by-blow account of the Florida recount. I broke out the popcorn and the pop for that one. Honestly, the recount was stupid in concept, but weren't you just glued to your television set? I personally liked having Bill Clinton in office. Come on, Bill may be an ignorant son of a gun, but wasn't it fun with him in office? We didn't have any of the major issues we have going on now when Bill was running things. Sure, he made a few mistakes, but having Bill in office was sort of like watching an MTV reality show, you never knew what was going to happen next. Bill was a good guy. People had jobs, money in their pocket and lived a decent life. The problem with politics is there are too many politicians. Nothing ever gets done. Politicians can never live up to their baby-kissing promises because there are too many of them to reach a consensus. I am not a Republican or a Democrat. But, I always vote for Doc Hastings, who is a Republican, because I feel he can get the job done. The problem with Doc is that he has to run every two years for re-election, which takes his focus off what can be done. I will admit I made a mistake voting for Democratic Gov. Gary Locke. Locke worked four years for the state and then decided to go on vacation the next four. I vote for whomever I feel can get the job done. The problem this November is I am not sure who can get the job done. This presidential election we have Democratic front runner John Kerry, who my kids know an awful frightening lot about, and President Bush. I believe Ralph Nader is also thrown into the mix as an independent candidate. Let's take a look at Kerry for a moment. He is sort of a Herman Munster looking individual who can't seem to find his way out of a wet sack. I really don't know that much about Kerry, except I would rather vote for Hilary Clinton than him. Why not give Hilary a chance? Could she really do any worse? Kerry really needs to find his own issues to stand on rather then just picking apart the president. All of us can join the fray to beat a man down. Kerry seems like he lives in a black and white world, sort of like the Munster TV episodes. Bush is a little harder for me to judge. Bush had a good idea when he wanted to give people back the money they work hard for. Also, no one can hold the president accountable for what happened on Sept. 11. Who would have ever thought that would take place? The problem I have with Bush is that he just never really answers a question. And quite honestly, the country is not a better place since Bush took office. I don't know who I am going to vote for this November. Heck, I might vote for Nader. I might vote for no one. Better yet, I might vote for Bill. Life was good, fun and interesting when Bill was the leader of the free world. Wouldn't you like those times back? . John Panni can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or email him at mPanni@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101242985855","Title":"Alderwood float headed to Moses Lake","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"5/28/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"The Alderwood community float, \"A Midsummer Night's Dream\" will be headed to the Moses Lakes community festival Saturday, May 29. The float will appear in the Moses Lake torch light parade beginning at 8:30 p.m., according to a float spokesperson. The float has already collected a number of trophies since its debut at the Granger Cherry Festival earlier this month. Most recently the float collected first place honors at the May 15 Spokane Lilac Festival Lighted Parade and the Zillah's Mayor Award at the Zillah Community Days parade"}
{"Id":"1101242986089","Title":"Brieflys","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"5/28/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"1-Column Silent auction set for June 22-23 GRANDVIEW - Lower Valley residents are being urged to pick up a bargain at a silent auction to be held Tuesday and Wednesday, June 22-23. The auction will be held from 10:30 a.m. to 12:30 p.m. each of the two days, at the Grandview Senior Center (401 W. 2nd St.). All proceeds raised from the auction will benefit the Grandview senior citizen programs. Esparza issued cease, desist order Washington state health officials have issued a cease and desist order against Ramon Esparza, who allegedly represented himself as a physician's assistant in Alderwood County while performing physical examinations and signing examination reports. Officials for the state's Unlicensed Practice Program said Esparza has been convicted of criminal impersonation. State officials also noted that Maria L. Mendoza, an applicant to practice as a nursing assistant in Alderwood County, has been charged with unprofessional conduct on charges of possessing stolen property. In addition, the state's Nursing Commission has reinstated the license of registered nurse Tammy J. Trump, a Alderwood County resident. Her license is subject to probation, and she must cooperate with a monitoring program. Charges against Trump include diverting controlled substances for her own non-therapeutic use and showing signs of impairment at work. UW scientists want to build underground lab near Leavenworth LEAVENWORTH - A preliminary plan for a national science and engineering laboratory deep underground in an area near Leavenworth was unveiled this week as a starting point for a formal proposal. \"This is a starting point for the people of the Leavenworth area to decide what they want the project to look like and define how it will fit into the community, if it is ultimately selected by the National Science Foundation and the venture goes forward,\" said Wick Haxton, a University of Washington physics professor. Haxton and another UW professor are the co-leaders of a collaboration proposing construction of a national science and engineering lab beneath Cashmere Mountain, located eight miles west of Leavenworth. In their plan, the lab would be carved deep in the 8,501-foot granite mountain, with access through two 3-mile long access tunnels. The National Science Foundation, which is underwriting the project, is expected to accept formal proposals for financing feasibility studies later this year. A pre-proposal document is available for viewing on-line at: int.phys.washington.edu/NUSEL/icicle.html"}
{"Id":"1101242986324","Title":"Engel sworn in as District Court judge","Author":"Mel Sacher","Time":"5/27/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"YAKIMA - For the second time Alderwood resident Don Engel has followed in the footsteps of now Superior Court Judge Ruth Reukauf. In 1999, he replaced her as the Alderwood County Court Commissioner and now, he is taking her place on the bench as a District Court judge as she fills the vacant Superior Court judge position. \"I want to assure her if she seeks higher office, I will be the first to sign up for her job,\" Engel joked at the investiture ceremony held at the Alderwood County Courthouse Wednesday afternoon. The ceremony held amongst his family, friends and peers was the formal robing ceremony and swearing into office. Judges sitting on the bench in Municipal, District and Superior courtrooms around the county were on hand to witness as Judge Rod Fitch conducted the ceremony and swearing in. Rick Kimbrough, whom Engel has shared a Grandview office with for the past three years, introduced Engel and spoke on his behalf. He said that after spending a couple of years as a court commissioner and a judge pro-tem for Alderwood County before returning to private practice, Engel learned his calling was really to the judge's bench. Born in Los Angeles, Calif., Engel moved to Richland as a teen. After graduating from Richland High School, he attended Washington State University, where he earned a Bachelor of Arts degree in political science. He earned his Juris Doctor degree from the University of Oregon School of Law before joining Roger Garrison's Alderwood law office in 1984. In 1999 he gave up his private practice to take on the role of court commissioner, a position that was cut a year later due to budget and case load issues, according to Judge Fitch. He also spent a year as a court commissioner before returning to private practice about three years ago, said Fitch. Kimbrough said that Engel was a good choice for the district court position because he has a \"...profound respect for land and compassion. I can't imagine a better person to serve in this position. \"We're going to miss Don in my office. He was a very able lawyer,\" he said. \"Mostly we're going to miss him when we need to get things off high shelves. He's the only one in the office over six feet tall,\" Kimbrough joked. In the ceremony, Engel was also referred to as a person who is fair and impartial and a person of common sense and integrity, by former employers and employees. Roasting Engel a little, Engel's former employer, Roger Garrison, said that in all the years they have known each other Engel never made the same mistake twice. \"He made a lot of them, but he never repeated them,\" said Garrison. Engel credited his success as an attorney to Garrison. \"Much of what I am as an attorney and what I want to be as a judge is because of his tutelage,\" said Engel. Engel was appointed to the position by Alderwood County commissioners in April. He was named to the bench partially due to a poll of the Alderwood County Bar Association. His fellow attorneys overwhelming supported Engel. His position on the District Court bench will be up for election this fall"}
{"Id":"1101242986558","Title":"Forum","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"5/26/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"1-Column SVID water To add to Mr. Hansen's letter to the editor about the fleecing of irrigation water customers on Harrison Hill, the Alderwood Valley Irrigation District (SVID) is spending hundreds of thousands of dollars (ours) to make sure that every person that asks will get it. But I am told that whether you have a small or large parcel, you will get only one, yes one, 3/4-inch outlet to supply the water. Mr. Hansen talks about people getting a pump, fittings, etc. to provide the pressure. But how much water can you draw through a 3/4-inch pipe? Thanks a lot SVID. /s/ George V. Johnson, Alderwood Home again \"Thanks.\" A small compact word that means so much. To everyone who knows me, from the mayor of Alderwood to the ones he seeks the best for as mayor, I owe a big thank you. I am home again in Alderwood due to everyone's prayers, concerns and well wishes. I'm not fully recovered but am definitely a miracle in progress. So, thank you to all those who called, sent plants or cards, or prayed for my recovery. It worked! I'm home again and so glad to be amongst friends, and glad to be alive and fairly well. /s/ Ellen Bird, Alderwood Policy needed for high school graduating seniors Regarding Bob Story's personal column (May 14): so, what's the big deal about some seniors wanting to recreate some Hollywood creation of how to celebrate the end of your high school days? Mr. Story, in his recent editorial, entitled \"High school episode brings out the hangmen,\" suggests that kids will be kids and they should walk for graduation. Anyone who feels differently should think of themselves as a party of a lynch mob. There is in my opinion a middle ground that escapes this editorial. My concern is that seniors who are close to the graduation date often feel untouchable regarding consequences. They are through with sports and activities to take away from them. The only real consequences are whether they can participate in the graduation event. I am not suggesting that the events related to the incident in question warrant that response. However, I am concerned about the message it sends to the other seniors about what is acceptable and what the school will do in response. Every 15 minutes a young person dies by drinking and driving. All of our efforts around senior party and celebration of graduation have been guided by the philosophy of providing the incentive to not drink or use drugs. I hesitate to think of the consequences of these seniors had one or others became involved in a fatal car accident, either themselves or someone else. We must do everything possible, as a community, school or parents to encourage our seniors to enjoy without the danger of alcohol or drugs. Perhaps, given current policies, nothing can be done beyond actions taken by the school. However, I feel the school might consider a specific policy regarding behavior within the last two months of school. Guidelines could be in place and reviewed with the seniors about the expectations the school places in order to walk on graduation night. /s/ Larry Pangle, Alderwood Lowering the bar The plague continues. I was again disappointed that the editorial section of this paper was given license to lower the bar in our community and help facilitate other irresponsible youth, as well as adults, with a subtle approval and a wink at the actions of nine seniors who disgraced their graduating class with the sanction of the local newspaper's enabling editorial (May 14). Thanks to similar attitudes we have bulging rehabs for youths who get \"liquored up and pot-eyed,\" and with the myriad of other charges they committed you just happened to overlook the two DUI's issued. So, Mr. Story, your \"what if your son or daughter had been caught in this predicament?\" (laughable use of words) lends for another question. Wouldn't it serve well to discipline by withdrawing those offenders from a graduation walk to save us all the \"what if\" walk as pallbearers? Oh, and set the bar back where it should be before the standardless media dictates another value system to our youth? /s/ John Torch, Alderwood Auction a success Alderwood Christian School would like to express our sincere gratitude to all who helped to make the 24th annual booster club auction a huge success. First, to the many volunteers who put in countless hours, we thank you. Your hard work ensured that the auction ran smoothly. Secondly, to the many local businesses that so generously donated items for the sale, we are grateful. Without your support, this auction would not be possible. Finally, to all who attended our event, we thank you. We appreciate your support in purchasing items. We truly do thank the community of Alderwood and your support for Alderwood Christian School. /s/ Del Dykstra, Administrator, Alderwood Christian School"}
{"Id":"1101243005964","Title":"Alderwood City Council Briefs","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"5/25/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"1-Column Councilman receives unexcused absence Alderwood City Councilman Tom Seeger received an unexcused absence from Monday night's weekly meeting. Seeger made no contact with Mayor Rex Luthor prior to missing Monday night's meeting, resulting in the unexcused absence. Councilman votes against consent agenda At Monday night's Alderwood City Council meeting, Councilman John Torch voted against the approval of the consent agenda. Torch gave no reason for his vote. Coming before Council on the consent agenda was the approval of five liquor license renewal requests. Requests coming before Council were from the Fraternal Order of Eagles, 100 East South Hill Road; Golden Pheasant Restaurant, 632 East Edison Avenue; North Avenue Market, 701 North Avenue; Snipes Mountain Brewing, 905 Alderwood Valley Highway; and Wal-Mart Supercenter, 2675 East Lincoln Avenue. Also coming before Council on the consent agenda was approval of the meeting minutes for May 10 and May 17. Council also approved the payment of 574,696 in voucher expenses. Explorers to be recognized at June 7 meeting At this past Monday night's meeting, it was announced the Alderwood City Council would be recognizing the police explorers who were involved with the free dump day residents were able to take advantage of earlier this month. The special recognition for explorers will take place at the Monday, June 7, Council meeting. Also on the June 7 agenda is Council agreeing to an engineering contract for remodeling of the Alderwood jail dispatch facilities. Council will also consider entering into an agreement to seek money from Alderwood County for a development Gary Christensen in planning"}
{"Id":"1101243006199","Title":"AHS Grizzlies beat West Valley to reclaim Apple Bowl trophy","Author":"Jamie Smart","Time":"5/25/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"ELLENSBURG - The questions flew back and forth. The buzzer rang under the hot studio lights as the Alderwood High School Grizzlies confidently set out to reclaim the coveted Apple Bowl trophy for the fourth time in Apple Bowl history this past Saturday. The five-member academic team, led by high school advisor Dan Thomas, beat the West Valley Apple Bowl team with a score of 295-215 in the 2004 championship finals. The 2004 KYVE Apple Bowl finals were televised Saturday, May 22, from the television studios on the Central Washington University campus. The AHS team handily beat last year's defending champions, the West Valley Rams, in the 24th finals of the popular high school quiz competition, which is produced by KYVE television in collaboration with Central Washington University. Team members Mitch Lathen, Josh Barr, Amber Gonzalez, Amy Kilian and Stacey Gorski all took turns fielding questions about science, English, history and math and a variety of miscellaneous topics. The all-senior Grizzly team earned the right to advance to the championships by beating out teams from Grandview, La Salle and Davis high schools early in the season, said Thomas. As their reward, the team brought home the Apple Bowl trophy, which will be on display in the high school business office for several days before taking up a prominent spot in the school trophy case. In addition, the team will split a 2,000 savings bond five ways, said Thomas, who is in his second year of coaching the Alderwood team. They also received medals to keep and t-shirts for taking part in the competition. Thomas, who previously coached the Granger High School Apple Bowl team, said the Alderwood group knows a lot about a variety of topics. \"They are a sharp group,\" he added"}
{"Id":"1101243006433","Title":"New city pool idea resurfaces in Grandview","Author":"Jamie Smart","Time":"5/25/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"GRANDVIEW - Plans to tour regional swim centers were approved during the Grandview Parks and Recreation Service Area Board meeting held Monday night. Pools in Quincy, Moses Lake and Ephrata will be inspected by the seven-member board beginning Monday, June 14. The board, which is in the final phases of putting together a swimming pool needs survey, also plans to examine the aquatic centers in the Oregon cities of Milton Freewater, Hermiston and Pendleton in mid-June. The tours of the regional water recreation centers is part of an effort by the Grandview parks board to learn more about the components which make the centers popular with the public, explained Mike Carpenter, director of Grandview Recreation and Park Services. Four years ago, the City of Grandview had sought to replace the 55-year-old Grandview pool, but the public vote failed, said Carpenter. \"We are now hoping to gather as much data as possible to inform the public of the need to replace the center and improve its services,\" Carpenter explained. He said the board hopes to create a proposal which best reflects the community needs. Four years ago, the aquatic center project, projected to cost 5.9 million, called for a 25-meter competitive eight-lane area, a zero depth pool, play water features, indoor and outdoor spas, as well as two water slides. At that time, other amenities being considered included sand volleyball pits, re-covering of the city tennis courts, additional parking space and an indoor lap pool, Carpenter explained. \"We will be asking the citizens to prioritize what their wishes are for the new city pool proposal,\" he said. The survey is expected to be distributed in late June. In the meantime, the service board members, led by Board Chair Dave Copeland, will be visiting with Grandview businesses and service clubs to explain the issues surrounding the need for a new city pool. The Grandview pool was last renovated in 1983, said Carpenter. He said the pool currently serves an average of 500 swimmers per day during the summer for swim lessons, swim team competitions and open and family swim times"}
{"Id":"1101243006668","Title":"Library says no to Initiative 864","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"5/20/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"In an effort to prevent further cuts in revenues, the Alderwood Valley Regional Library will host an informational meeting in Alderwood tomorrow (Friday) at noon. The meeting, to be chaired by Monica Weyhe, executive director of the regional library system, will be held at the Alderwood Masonic Hall. \"We are hoping to educate voters to the devastating impact further tax rollbacks will have on the state's library system,\" said Kay Saunders, Alderwood public librarian. She said people's Initiative 864, being proposed by tax activist Tim Eyman, is being distributed in an effort to collect enough signatures to be placed on the fall ballot. \"We are asking people to forego signing the initiative petition, in order to keep it from being placed on the ballot,\" Saunders said. She encourages the public to attend Friday's informational meeting. \"If the measure gets on the ballot, we fear voters will see it as yet another tax saving measure. But the long term impact will be that poor counties, such as Alderwood County, will be losing services. \"This is not a manner of being thrifty,\" she said. \"It's a manner of closing libraries,\" she said"}
{"Id":"1101243007136","Title":"City Council leads the way in dedication of new center","Author":"John Panni","Time":"5/18/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"Monday night was truly a momentous occasion for the City of Alderwood. After nearly three decades, the citizens of Alderwood finally have a community center to call their own. The Alderwood City Council led the way last night at the dedication ceremonies for the Alderwood Community Center at South Hill Park. The Council conducted its regular Monday meeting at the community center to coincide with dedication ceremonies last night. There were also several special guests on hand, including former City Manager Dave Fonfara, State Senator Jim Honeyford and Alderwood County Commissioner John Posse. Mayor Rex Luthor opened the evening with some thoughts on the road that has been taken with the construction of the community center. Luthor said for years the residents of Alderwood have had in place recreation programs to keep them busy, but have never had a facility to utilize. \"Now, we have the facility,\" said Luthor. \"This is definitely a community center to be dedicated to the citizens of Alderwood.\" Alderwood Parks and Recreation Director Don Stiles provided those in attendance with some background on the community center project. While there has been discussions for decades about building a community center, Stiles said he became formally involved with the idea in 1993 when a group of citizens led by Greg Uberuaga talked about the possibility of having such a place. Discussions lingered until May 1998 when a community center planning committee was formed, involving such people as Fonfara and Ruben Carrera. The city began a feasibility study for the center in August 1998. The study was completed by April 1999. Stiles said the final feasibility study had the center at 26,000 square feet in size with a price tag of 2.4 million. Through the efforts of the city's architectural firm for the project, Calvin Jordan Associates of Bellevue, the size of the community center was reduced to 9,850 square feet at a cost of 1.8 million. In March 2001, the city received a 750,000 state grant. In December 2002, Council awarded the bid to lay the center foundation, putting into motion the construction phase for the community center. Stiles said he is very proud of the work that was done with the community center by everyone involved. He said a lot of time and effort went into making sure the building is a quality facility. Luthor then opened the evening to the special guests in attendance. Fonfara said he knows that there were discussions for a community center since he was appointed the city's first parks and recreation director in February 1980. Fonfara gave a lot of credit to two current Alderwood councilmen, George Greenway and Tom Seeger, for their hard work in helping bring the community center to life. \"I played a small role in this community center,\" said Fonfara. \"But I am as proud as anybody here.\" \"It is a needed facility,\" said Senator Honeyford, a former Alderwood councilman. \"It is something we have been looking for.\" State Representative Dan Newhouse told the audience Alderwood has desired to have a community center for many years. Newhouse said when he graduated from Alderwood High School in 1973 the most common words that were uttered out of the mouths of young people were there was no place to go or anything to do. \"Kids, you can't say that any more,\" said Newhouse. \"This is a great day for the town. I look forward to many great years and a lot of service out of this center.\" Posse, a former mayor of neighboring Grandview, was on hand to extend his congratulations to the city. Posse also shared how Alderwood has been discussing for many years the need for a community center. Posse said the new community center shows what people who work together can achieve. \"Today is a blue-ribbon day for the City of Alderwood,\" said Posse. Former Alderwood Mayor Don Hughes wanted to extend his thanks to the current city council for the work members have done. He said in 1973 the discussion for a community center began, but at the time all that was taking place was discussions. \"Thinking didn't get it done,\" said Hughes. \"I hope all of you will join me in thanking this city council in front of you right now.\" After a few comments from current Alderwood City Manager Robert Rockford, who said he would do his best to ensure the community center is utilized properly for the citizens, Stiles ended the evening thanking those involved. Stiles said he is thankful for the support of the Council in the parks department projects. He cited the Council's support with such endeavors as SunnyView Park, the swimming pool and the various other projects taking place. \"This just adds another jewel in our crown,\" said Stiles. The city has contracted with Washington State Migrant Council to manage the community center"}
{"Id":"1101243007402","Title":"DeAtley shares results of jail siting survey","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"5/17/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"YAKIMA - Last week, Yakima businessman Al DeAtley, who opposes the decision to locate the new Alderwood County Justice Center at the Central Washington State Fairgrounds, announced the findings of a public opinion poll conducted by Elway Research on his behalf. The independent firm conducted 400 telephone interviews of Yakima voters between April 26 and 28. The results have a 5 percent margin of error. According to information from DeAtley, 54 percent of the people polled live within the 98902 zip code, 37 percent live in the 98908 zip code, 7 percent live in the 98901 zip code and 2 percent live in the 98903 zip code. Of those who took part in the survey 53 percent were female and 47 percent were male. The first question poll takers were asked was whether or not they had heard anything about a plan to build a new jail in Yakima. According to the results, 95 percent of the people surveyed said they had heard about it. They were then asked how closely they have been following the jail issue. The results showed that 27 percent have been following the issue very closely, 45 percent have been following it somewhat closely, 25 percent have not been following it closely, and 2 percent were not asked the follow-up question. According to the results, the third item survey participants were asked about was their thoughts on buiding the jail at a different site. The statement presented to poll takers read \"Local government officials and a Blue Ribbon Panel of citizens has been looking at potential sites for a new jail for about two years. They have proposed three different sites in that time. Each of those sites proved unworkable. The current proposal is to build the jail on the county fairgrounds. Supporters say that this is the most practical and affordable site available. They say it will save taxpayer dollars to build the jail there. Opponents say putting the jail on the fairgrounds would be a blight on the fairgrounds and would harm the fair. They say there are better places in the county to put the new jail.\" The results show that 14 percent of those polled strongly support building the jail at the fairgrounds, while 21 percent support the idea. According to Elway Research, this means that 36 percent of those polled support the jail siting. The results show that 26 percent of those surveyed said they oppose the project, while 32 percent said they oppose the building of the jail at the fairgrounds. Six percent of those people polled had no opinion. Elway Research then told people that \"another possible site for the new jail might be in the industrial area near the armory at the airport.\" They asked those polled if that site was considered if they would support or oppose the jail. According to the results of the survey, 17 percent answered that they would strongly support building the new jail near the airport, 43 percent responded that they would support the proposal, meaning that a total of 80 percent of the people polled support building the jail near the airport. Poll results showed that 17 percent of those surveyed oppose the idea, while another 12 percent strongly oppose building near the airport, which means 29 percent of those polled oppose the proposal. Eleven percent of those who were surveyed had no opinion in regards to the proposal. According to the information gathered by Elway Research, 33 percent of the survey participants were ages 51 to 64, 27 percent were ages 36-50, 27 percent were over the age of 65, and 14 percent were between the ages of 18 to 35. The poll also found that 38 percent of those surveyed are employed in a private business, 15 percent are employed in the private sector, 11 percent are not working right now and 35 percent are retired"}
{"Id":"1101243007636","Title":"Citizen compliments Cinco de Mayo event","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"5/14/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"Alderwood resident Doris Brandvold complimented the Alderwood Chamber of Commerce and the city at this past Monday night's Alderwood City Council meeting. Brandvold said the jail trustees and chamber officials did a nice job of maintaining the downtown area where the Cinco de Mayo event was held this past weekend. Mayor Rex Luthor also extended his congratulations to the Alderwood chamber for what he viewed as a successful Cinco de Mayo event"}
{"Id":"1101243007918","Title":"Briefs","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"5/13/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"1-Column McTeacher Night on tap May 20 at McDonald s Next Thursday, May 20, McDonald's in Alderwood will host McTeacher Night. Approximately 30 Chief Kamiakin Elementary School teachers will be manning the fast food restaurant from 5 to 7:30 p.m. McDonald's has agreed to give 15 percent of all sales during that time to the school. The money raised will be spent on establishing classroom libraries at the school. Also, now through May 20 the Alderwood McDonald's restaurant is selling paper apples as a fund-raiser to help fund the project. State takes disciplinary action against health care providers The Washington State Department of Health has taken disciplinary actions against two Alderwood County health care providers. In March the state's unlicensed practice program issued a notice of intent to issue a cease and desist order against Alejandro \"Alex\" Guzman. He allegedly offered and performed massages to the public for a fee. State officials say Guzman does not have a license to practice as a massage practitioner. Also in March, the state's pharmacy board charged pharmacist Judith Wolfe with unprofessional conduct. Wolfe is being charged with diverting controlled substances and legend drugs from her work place for her own use. School board in Grandview has vacancy GRANDVIEW - The Grandview School Board of Education is now accepting applications from qualified persons to fill a vacancy. Appointees must be a U.S. citizen and a qualified, registered voter living within the open director district. Director District #3 is open due to the resignation of Tony Gonzalez, who served on the board for 10 years. A map of the district in question is available by calling 882-8500. Those interested in being appointed to replace Gonzalez should submit a letter of interest to Rachel Ott at 913 W. 2nd St. in Grandview. Musical melodrama auctions scheduled TOPPENISH - The Toppenish Creek Players will continue to conduct auditions this Thursday and Friday for their upcoming production of \"Little Mary Sunshine.\" Especially needed for the musical melodrama are men and women who can play 18 to 25-year-olds. Auditions will be held at the Toppenish Masonic Lodge building (12 E. Third Ave.) on May 13 and 14 at 7 p.m. both nights. REC board to meet May 25 The Lower Alderwood Valley Rural Enterprise Community (REC) board of directors will meet Tuesday, May 25. The 6:45 p.m. meeting at the Alderwood Community Center is open to the public. Alderwood parade winners named The Alderwood Cinco de Mayo Parade winners have been announced. They include: Kim Arriaga - 1st for equestrian clubs; Rancho Viejo - 1st for charro associations; Francisco de la Torre - 1st for individual charro, Hector Lopez - 2nd for individual charro; Miss Alderwood float - 1st for large community floats, Miss Cinco de Mayo float - 2nd for large community floats; Granger royalty court - 1st for small community floats; Paleteria La Nortena - 1st for commerical floats; Country Carriage - 1st for organization floats, Marlee Zieger - 2nd for organization floats; Panda Bear Child Care Center - 1st for marching youth units; Mayela de la Cruz - 1st for antique cars; and Lowered II Perfection - 1st for custom cars, Xplicit Performance - 2nd for custom cars"}
{"Id":"1101243029230","Title":"McTeacher Night on tap May 20 at McDonald's","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"5/13/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"Next Thursday, May 20, McDonald's in Alderwood will host McTeacher Night. Approximately 30 Chief Kamiakin Elementary School teachers will be manning the fast food restaurant from 5 to 7:30 p.m. McDonald's has agreed to give 15 percent of all sales during that time to the school. The money raised will be spent on establishing classroom libraries at the school. Also, now through May 20 the Alderwood McDonald's restaurant is selling paper apples as a fund-raiser to help fund the project. State takes disciplinary action against health care providers The Washington State Department of Health has taken disciplinary actions against two Alderwood County health care providers. In March the state's unlicensed practice program issued a notice of intent to issue a cease and desist order against Alejandro \"Alex\" Guzman. He allegedly offered and performed massages to the public for a fee. State officials say Guzman does not have a license to practice as a massage practitioner. Also in March, the state's pharmacy board charged pharmacist Judith Wolfe with unprofessional conduct. Wolfe is being charged with diverting controlled substances and legend drugs from her work place for her own use. School board in Grandview has vacancy GRANDVIEW - The Grandview School Board of Education is now accepting applications from qualified persons to fill a vacancy. Appointees must be a U.S. citizen and a qualified, registered voter living within the open director district. Director District #3 is open due to the resignation of Tony Gonzalez, who served on the board for 10 years. A map of the district in question is available by calling 882-8500. Those interested in being appointed to replace Gonzalez should submit a letter of interest to Rachel Ott at 913 W. 2nd St. in Grandview. Musical melodrama auctions scheduled TOPPENISH - The Toppenish Creek Players will continue to conduct auditions this Thursday and Friday for their upcoming production of \"Little Mary Sunshine.\" Especially needed for the musical melodrama are men and women who can play 18 to 25-year-olds. Auditions will be held at the Toppenish Masonic Lodge building (12 E. Third Ave.) on May 13 and 14 at 7 p.m. both nights. REC board to meet May 25 The Lower Alderwood Valley Rural Enterprise Community (REC) board of directors will meet Tuesday, May 25. The 6:45 p.m. meeting at the Alderwood Community Center is open to the public. Alderwood parade winners named The Alderwood Cinco de Mayo Parade winners have been announced. They include: Kim Arriaga - 1st for equestrian clubs; Rancho Viejo - 1st for charro associations; Francisco de la Torre - 1st for individual charro, Hector Lopez - 2nd for individual charro; Miss Alderwood float - 1st for large community floats, Miss Cinco de Mayo float - 2nd for large community floats; Granger royalty court - 1st for small community floats; Paleteria La Nortena - 1st for commerical floats; Country Carriage - 1st for organization floats, Marlee Zieger - 2nd for organization floats; Panda Bear Child Care Center - 1st for marching youth units; Mayela de la Cruz - 1st for antique cars; and Lowered II Perfection - 1st for custom cars, Xplicit Performance - 2nd for custom cars"}
{"Id":"1101243029527","Title":"Parents of Miss Mabton candidates upset","Author":"Jamie Smart","Time":"5/12/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"MABTON - While technically the Mabton City Council has no jurisdiction over Mabton Community Days and Miss Mabton Pageant activities, parents of the Miss Mabton candidates found themselves in front of the council last night (Tuesday) with a laundry list of complaints. The room was divided by those who had complaints about pageant director Rachel Ruelas' handling of pre-pageant activities and those who support her volunteer efforts. \"The Council chambers is the only public forum they have available to them,\" said Ildia Jackson, Mabton City Administrator. \"Technically, we have no say in the pageant program as the City don't give it any type of financial support. All support for the pageant is generated by the candidates under the direction of Ruelas,\" she explained. Nevertheless, the candidates' parents voiced questions about the lack of advance planning and communication between them and Ruelas, who is in her second year as the pageant coordinator. Saying there ought to be more communication with the parents, Jay Bonewell, the father of one of the candidates, said he was concerned about the negative impression the candidates are receiving about the program. \"This no way to run a program,\" he said. He said parents were not being kept informed of the activities required of the candidates. \"We as parents are not allowed to help out and when we step forward to help, we are shouted down,\" he said. As part of their pre-pageant activities candidates are asked to help raise funds via car washes and bake sales, in addition to attending area parades. \"That's all well and good, but we need more advance notice,\" Bonewell said. He was upset with Ruelas, who apparently became upset when his wife offered to help register the girls for an appearance in the recent Alderwood Cinco De Mayo Parade. \"But we had all agreed not to participate in the parade, because it was on Mother's Day,\" offered Ruelas. \"Mrs. Bonewell went ahead and registered them anyway without consulting me,\" she said. \"We can't have every parent scheduling the girls' time for things without my clearance,\" she explained. Maria Beltran, the mother of the current Miss Mabton, said she also became concerned when her daughter was left out of recent parade activities. \"Sofie (Beltran) wasn't even invited,\" Beltran said. \"We've not been invited to participate in any of the parades, but the candidates were,\" she said. Rachel Sanchez, whose daughter is currently seeking the Miss Mabton crown, said her daughter was not notified of changes in the schedule, which includes pageant rehearsals, parades and fund-raisers. \"She had to find out from the other candidates, and that is not right,\" Sanchez added. \"I hope this is not how everything is going to go for her,\" she said. \"I'd just like to know what is going on,\" Sanchez said. Ruelas said she heard last Friday that there was a move afoot to have her removed as the pageant director. Ruelas stressed she has no thought of stepping down at this time. \"I plan to go ahead with our June 11 pageant,\" she said. Ruelas said as the pageant coordinator, all activities involving the candidates must be cleared through her before they can participate in events. \"That rule is understood before we start, but apparently not by all parents,\" Ruelas said. Ruelas, who only recently began preparing the five Mabton High School girls for the pageant, said she has attempted to contact all of the candidates. \"I admit there has been difficulties with the communication, but as far as advance scheduling goes, sometimes events pop up quickly and we have to jump on the chance to participate in car washes or bake sales,\" she said. Mabton Mayor David Conradt said there wasn't anything the Council could do to solve the parents and pageant coordinator's problems. \"You'll have to work out these issues among yourselves,\" Conradt said. \"We are not trying to make light of your concerns. But our job is to pass laws and manage the city budget, not intervene in these types of disputes,\" he said. At this point Ruelas said she plans to proceed with the pageant, to be held at the Artz-Fox Elementary School gym"}
{"Id":"1101243029762","Title":"Open Mike","Author":"John Panni","Time":"5/12/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"Politics have always amazed me. You have people who run for office, kiss all of the babies and make promises about what they will do for you and others. Politicians are the great salesmen of life, always finding a way to get you to buy something while paying that outrageous hidden interest fee. Buying into their line, the citizens usually vote for someone who forgets about why they ran for political office in the first place. A favorite line of thinking I am learning from politicians is that they are there for the people, but the people shouldn't know all of the facts about everything. People of Alderwood County should be very upset with our county commissioners-John Posse, Tim June and Tom Camay. The county has acted very irresponsibly in building the new jail. I used to be the one covering the story on the jail Alderwood County wants to build and it astonished me some of the things that took place. But now it is time someone calls this entire process of this never ending soap opera of siting a jail in Alderwood County what it was, which is a joke. I believe the commissioners and Jake Jundt, who is the project jail manager, knew the entire time that they were going to locate that jail facility at the county fairgrounds. Let's see, Jundt, who is being paid very well, is in charge of constructing this jail for the county in hopes of making some money for our cash strapped county. But from what I know the county has spent a few million dollars on the concept of the jail and received nothing in return. By the way, how can the county begin construction on the jail if a citizen's group is currently appealing the decision of the Alderwood County commissioners to place the jail at the fairgrounds. On a side note, I have often wondered about this. The citizens group went before the county hearing examiner with their complaints, and the hearing examiner ruled that the county did nothing wrong with its evaluation of the property. But doesn't the hearing examiner work for the county officials who are trying to place the jail at the fairgrounds? Sounds fishy, huh? When the county went through the circus of trying to find a location to place the jail last year, there were no hard facts presented. In fact, there were just some rough estimates presented concerning such areas as transporting prisoners down to Alderwood. I thought that was very irresponsible of the county to not even have hard facts to back up their decision. I could have saved them a lot of work and told them right at the beginning it would be cheaper to build at the fairgrounds because the county owns the property. Sort of a no-brainer, one would think. I just get tired of hearing about all the hassle surrounding the jail. Like I said, I could have built the facility by now and I would have done it for a lot less expensive price. The funny part of all this is that if the county had chosen Alderwood as the site the project would have been well underway by now, if not completed. But I guess there is a reason why this is Alderwood County and not Alderwood County. Politicians. They are a fickle bunch, aren't they"}
{"Id":"1101243030012","Title":"Alderwood City Council Briefs","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"5/11/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"1-Column Council pulls item from agenda Mayor Rex Luthor Monday night informed the Alderwood City Council that city staff asked him to remove an item from the agenda. The item was an agreement with the Alderwood Valley Conference of Governments (COG) to apply for a Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) for a city-wide housing rehabilitation project. Councilwoman Jennie Angel, who is heavily involved with the Alderwood Up! housing rehabilitation program, asked about the delay. Angel was concerned that any delays would stop COG and the city from being able to obtain CDBG funds. City Manager Robert Rockford said he asked the mayor to remove the item because he felt there were too many blanks in what was being presented. Rockford said he wanted to bring a complete document before Council, instead of asking members to approve a document without knowing all the facts. \"We do have time,\" said Rockford. Rockford said the application for CDBG funds doesn't have to be submitted until September. Rockford said last night he was scheduled to meet with COG representatives today (Tuesday) to further discuss the issue. Councilman concerned about loud music and reports of racers Councilman John Torch expressed his concern at this past Monday night's Alderwood City Council meeting about problems with loud music and street racing over the weekend. Torch said he had received several comments from residents about the problems with loud music and street racing this past weekend. Torch said he was even amazed to hear during Sunday night's power outage that people were still able to play loud music. Alderwood Police Chief Ted Mana responded to Torch' concerns. Mana said he didn't know if there was an increase in activity this past weekend, but his officers did make a couple of street racing related arrests. Mana also said the police department received 15 reports of loud music from 8 a.m. last Friday to 8 a.m. Monday. The police chief said a majority of the complaints were from 9 p.m. to 3 a.m. on Friday. 911 board to meet this Wednesday Mayor Rex Luthor told Alderwood City Council members this past Monday night there will be a special meeting of the Alderwood County 911 Board of Directors this Wednesday. Luthor, who sits on the board, said the lone discussion item will be the possibility of consolidating dispatching services in the county. Angel to represent Council on Alderwood Inc. committee The Alderwood City Council approved a request from Councilwoman Jennie Angel this past Monday night to serve on a marketing committee overseen by Alderwood Inc. Councilman Jim Sarducci is the Council representative to Alderwood Inc., but Angel expressed a desire to represent Council on the Alderwood Inc. marketing committee. Sarducci gave his blessing to Angel's request. Council to hold May 17 meeting at community center At Monday night's meeting, the Alderwood City Council approved a motion to change the venue for the May 17 gathering. Council will meet next week at the new Alderwood Community Center at South Hill Park instead of at the Law and Justice Center. Mayor Rex Luthor explained the Council had to formally approve the change of location for next week's meeting to comply with the Alderwood Municipal Code. The city's municipal code establishes the time and location of council meetings. Next week's Council meeting will formally begin at 7 p.m., but Council will be involved in a set of activities prior. Luthor said unless there are any pressing issues he would like to have next week's meeting set aside for the dedication of the community center. \"This is a fantastic facility,\" said Luthor"}
{"Id":"1101243030246","Title":"Briefs","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"5/11/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"1-Column Pasco company faces L&I fines PASCO - The Washington Department of Labor & Industries issued citations last week to Pasco's Paragon Construction Co. for six alleged work place safety violations at an underground utility installation project in the Tri-Cities. The citations carry a combined penalty of 245,700. Five \"willful\" violations and one \"serious\" violation were issued on charges of exposing workers to serious injury or death from cave-in hazards while working in trenches as deep as 30 feet in \"type C\" soil. L&I officials maintain the company repeatedly failed to use proper shoring, sloping or shielding protections during work last October, November and December. \"This is the most dangerous trench work I've ever seen,\" said Reuel Paradis, L&I regional administrator for Central Washington. \"We're very fortunate nobody was killed or seriously injured.\" Paragon Construction Co. has 15 business days to appeal the citations. Enticing investors topic of workshop RICHLAND - Technology firms can learn how to present to investors at the Washington Technology Center's Tri-Cities Eye of the Investor Workshop. The Wednesday, June 9, workshop will be held at Richland's Pacific Northwest National Laboratory from 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. Attendees will learn from Alliance of Angels professionals about how to present to investors, with two local case studies included. Those interested in attending the 35 workshop, lunch included, should contact the Small Business Development Center (509-735-6222). Friends of Scouting breakfast this Thursday Rob McKenna, a Metropolitan King County Council member, will be the guest speaker at the 2004 \"Friends of Scouting\" breakfast to be held in Alderwood this Thursday, May 13. The 6:45 to 8 p.m. breakfast will be held at the newly constructed Alderwood Community Center. The annual event is designed to heighten the awareness of Scouting within the community, and provide an opportunity for community members to contribute to the fund-raising campaign. Those community members interested in attending Thursday's fund-raiser can reserve a seat by calling 839-8066. McKenna, who has earned Eagle Scout status, has served on the King County Council since January 1996. He is also a sitting member of the Regional Transportation Investment District Executive Board, and was the co-founder of the King County Transportation Coalition. The special honoree at this year's Alderwood breakfast will be Dr. Aaron Bones, superintendent of Alderwood's public schools. Open government topic of meeting set for Wednesday YAKIMA - If open government in Washington state is important to you, Yakima is the place to be this Wednesday. Government, media and legal experts will meet from 1 to 4:30 p.m. Wednesday, May 12, to discuss and clarify Washington's open public meetings and open records laws. The meeting will be held at the Perry Technical Institute auditorium. \"Through legislation like the Open Public Meetings Act and our public records laws, Washington lawmakers have made it clear that the public's business needs to be conducted in an open manner,\" said Mike Balmelli, news director for KAPP-TV, one of the sponsors of the event. \"Unfortunately, these laws have sometimes set up confrontations between agencies and the public they serve. \"We hope this meeting will help all parties better understand their rights and responsibilities in this important arena,\" Balmelli said. Yakima Herald-Republic Publisher Michael Shepard said he hopes this meeting will help demystify the state's very good, but sometimes tricky access laws. Shepard said the public is not only invited, but is being encouraged to attend Wednesday's meeting. The May 12 meeting is being co-sponsored by several Alderwood Valley news media agencies, including the Alderwood Daily News in Alderwood"}
{"Id":"1101243030730","Title":"Fixing cars in streets now a 'no-no","Author":"John Panni","Time":"5/11/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"The Alderwood City Council adopted a new resolution banning the repair of vehicles on public property or in public right-of-ways. Alderwood City Manager Robert Rockford said he felt comfortable with recommending the Council adopt the new ordinance. But Rockford said he would rather see the city enforce the existing ordinances rather than adopting new ones. The new ordinance adopted by Council makes it illegal for residents to conduct any major repairs or change motor vehicle fluids on public streets, sidewalks, rights-of-way and other public property. The reasoning is any such repairs might create a safety or environmental hazard. The ordinance does allow for residents to make emergency repairs to vehicles on public property. \"It is unfortunate we have to pass these kinds of ordinances,\" said Mayor Pro-tem George Greenway. Greenway said the ordinance is not only for the safety of residents, but it will also help ensure that no environmental contamination takes place. Greenway said the ordinance will help eliminate any possible contamination in the city's drain system. The mayor pro-tem said there are just too many unseen risks with allowing people to repair their vehicles on public rights-of-way. Greenway added this ordinance will also help with the development of properties in town"}
{"Id":"1101243031215","Title":"Chase hired as new Grandview School District superintendent","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"5/10/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"GRANDVIEW - There will be a changing of the guard in the Grandview School District. Following an executive session last Friday afternoon, the Grandview School Board announced the hiring of current Mabton School District Superintendent Kevin Chase as the new superintendent. Chase will replace current Grandview School District Superintendent John Mathis. Mathis has been head of the Grandview School District for the past seven years. Mathis is credited with bringing the Grandview School District into the 21st century. Mathis is also credited with being instrumental in helping pass a bond issue that resulted in the construction of several new, modernized schools in Grandview. Mathis is retiring as Grandview superintendent after 35 years in education. Chase beat out two other finalists for the position of Grandview superintendent. In late April, Chase, Mary Walker School District Superintendent Richard Couley and Ellensburg School District Assistant Superintendent Sandra Sheldon went through an extensive interview process, which included meeting with community members. Chase will assume the role of Grandview superintendent starting July 1. Chase has been the superintendent of the Mabton School District since 1998. Prior to that, Chase served as the assistant superintendent in Mabton for one year. From 1994 to 1997, Chase was the assistant principal at Alderwood High School. Chase was also a vocational agriculture teacher in Mabton and Granger high schools for several years. Chase received his Bachelor of Science degree in agricultural education from Washington State University. He also obtained his superintendent credentials from WSU. Chase also has a Master's of Education administration degree from Heritage College"}
{"Id":"1101243050855","Title":"Alderwood to adopt ordinance banning car repairs on streets","Author":"John Panni","Time":"5/4/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"The City of Alderwood currently has no ordinance on its books prohibiting people from performing vehicle repairs on public right-of-ways. That is about to change. At Monday night's meeting, the Alderwood City Council voted unanimously to move forward with adopting an ordinance prohibiting people from repairing any vehicle on a public street. Council is set to adopt the ordinance at the Monday, May 10, meeting. The issue came to light during an April Council meeting when Councilman Tom Seeger asked staff to look into the matter of what the city can do to stop people from repairing their vehicles on the streets. The new ordinance basically will prohibit local residents from performing any vehicle repairs, including changing oil, on any street, sidewalk or public right-of-way. The new ordinance does allow for such repairs to take place in case of an emergency. Councilwoman Jennie Angel had a few concerns about the new ordinance. First, she wanted to know how this ordinance would be enforced in areas that don't have sidewalks. She also shared with Council that numerous people have called her, voicing their concerns that the city is trying to nit-pick at residents, telling them how to live their lives. Angel said she didn't feel the Council was trying to pester residents, but felt the issue before members could be enforced from a safety standpoint. Seeger said people simply need to do any kind of vehicle repairs on their own property or take their cars to a garage. Seeger said most cities have an ordinance like the one before Council, banning residents from doing vehicle repairs on public streets. \"This is not just a public safety issue,\" said Seeger. It is a public nuisance issue. I think it is just common sense"}
{"Id":"1101243051355","Title":"Cherry Festival means fun for everyone","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"5/3/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"GRANGER - The sun was shining bright as the Granger Cherry Festival kicked off Saturday morning with a parade that included community floats, a local marching band and everything in between. Taking home awards from the first parade of the season were the Harrah and Zillah community floats, with Harrah taking first place and the Mayor's Award in the population under 5,000 category. Zillah took second place in the same category. Service club winners were Tannewasha, which took first place in the category, and the Zillah Lions Club, which took second place. The first place winner in the commercial category was the entry from B&D Farms. In the category for community floats from towns with a population of more than 5,000, Grandview took first place and Wapato second. In the same category the Alderwood float with its Midsummer's Night Dream theme was presented the Sweepstakes Award. Besides hosting a colorful parade, the Cherry Festival also included plenty of activities in the park from carnival rides to different foods to try. Across the street from the downtown park was the Cherry Festival Youth Art Show, which featured metal work, drawings and paintings by local youth. In the pre-school through fourth grade category second grader Daniel Ramos took first place, first grader Norma Ramos took second place and kindergartner Graciela Maldonaldo took third. In the fifth through eighth grade category seventh grader Juan Rodriguez was awarded first place, eighth grader Andres Camacho took second and eighth grader Adilene Caballero took third. In the ninth through 12th grade category the duo of Vince Castro and Juan Quazada took first place, ninth grader Adrian Diaz took second and senior Nestor Quezada took third. The best of show winner was senior Eric Qumones, J. Padilla and Alex Zungia with their scrap metal creation \"Dragon.\" The winner of the art show drawing was Jessie Marin"}
{"Id":"1101243051605","Title":"Republican Club speakers not happy with 2004 session","Author":"John Panni","Time":"4/30/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Disappointment was the common theme among three area lawmakers with the 2004 state legislative session. State Senator Jim Honeyford and area Representatives Bruce Chandler and Dan Newhouse addressed the Alderwood Republican Club this morning to talk about the past session. Newhouse was the first of the three lawmakers to speak on the past 60-day session, which he felt nothing major was really accomplished. Newhouse said the session was marred by the fact this year is a major election year. \"It does tend to flavor some of the bills (introduced),\" said Newhouse. Newhouse, who is just completing his first two-year-term, said the state once more spent more money than it has. The good news, felt Newhouse, was that general taxes weren't increased to cover any shortfalls. There was some good news out of the recent budget session. The legislature allocated 145 million to address areas such as education and health care. Newhouse said the state in the next biennium faces another multiple billion dollar deficit, similar to the 2.8 billion the state was in the hole last year. The legislature also implemented some regulations concerning the Mad Cow epidemic. It is now illegal to transport \"downer\" cows to rendering plants. Newhouse said the legislature is also looking at addressing prevention of the Mad Cow disease further. There were also bills passed designed to help the fleeting asparagus and hop industries. The legislature, said Newhouse, also managed to reinstate several tax incentives that were set to expire this summer after being in place for a decade, that will help state business. Newhouse said these incentives will help spark the state's struggling economy. Newhouse also said more needs to be done to keep doctors, nurses and hospitals, especially in rural areas, from moving out of state because of liability premiums that are too expensive to pay. Newhouse said he is excited about this upcoming election year for Republicans. He said Dino Rossi is a quality candidate for the Republicans. He also felt George Bush has a good chance of being re-elected president, depending on how the economy and the war in Iraq take shape in the next few months. \"Republicans in this state feel a sense of excitement,\" said Newhouse. Chandler, who is the deputy Republican leader in the house, was also frustrated with the recent legislative session. Chandler said no consensus on issues dealing with such areas as health care and workman's compensation were addressed in this past session. Chandler spent a majority of his time talking about the failing workman's comp system. \"It is not adequately serving employers or employees,\" said Chandler. Chandler said unless something is done to address problems with the state labor and industry department program, another double-digit rate increase can be expected. Chandler added the problem with the workman's comp system is that L&I is not adequately managing the program. Chandler said the 15th district trio plans to work extensively next year on bringing meaningful reform to the system. Another area of concern Chandler has deals with the recent changes to the primary election. The state, based on a court decision, recently implemented a new primary election system, where people will vote according to political affiliation. Chandler is concerned the new voting system will keep people away from the polls. Chandler is expecting an initiative on the November ballot challenging the state's new primary system. Chandler said this election year will be one of the most significant ones in recent memory. He said the decisions made this fall will impact the Valley and the state for the next decade. One of the top priorities of the three area lawmakers is to restore the people's trust in their government, said Chandler. Chandler said he wants to see changes within state agencies, where they focus on serving the people more. Chandler said business and people continue to leave the state because of the changes being implemented in Olympia. \"We really need to change that,\" said Chandler. Sen. Honeyford, the elder political statesman of the trio, was equally disappointed with the happenings in Olympia this past session. \"(In 2004) we really didn't get a whole lot done we could be proud of,\" said Honeyford. Honeyford was disheartened to see no headway being gained on the workman's comp issue. He also wished more had been done to address the state's water issues. Honeyford said Governor Gary Locke did a lot to slow down progress on both bills. Honeyford said about 75 percent of the problem with the workman's comp issue is the department of labor and industry, itself. Honeyford wants to implement legislation that has an outside agency conduct a review of the labor and industry department. Currently, the state agency conducts an internal review. Honeyford also announced he is seeking the caucus chair position, which is the No. 2 seat in the senate. Honeyford currently had 17 votes to give him the coveted position, needing only 13"}
{"Id":"1101243051840","Title":"Hart Beat","Author":"Jamie Smart","Time":"4/30/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"I try not to get upset about these things, really I do. But occasionally the bizarreness of our city council's actions gets even to me. I question a lot of the things they do, even after I hear all of the testimony for their decisions. I question because I used to be a political type - angered beyond reason by the inequities in government. I even took my turn in the barrel as a city council member in Mabton in the 1970s. Now that was an exciting time to be in government. Way back then we had real issues to deal with -- paving our city streets, providing safe water supplies for the citizens, improving city infrastructures, providing an adequate police force and encouraging business growth in our community. Oh yeah - those are still real issues, not that you can tell by some of the recent actions of the Alderwood City Council. I realize that it isn't always easy coming up with money to fund parks, sidewalks, sewer lines and providing for public safety, be it fire or police protection. Heck, it isn't easy coming up with the money to pay my water and sewer and garbage bills, or the taxes to provide public safety. The Council passes the rules and we, as citizens try to do our part. But every now and then, I have to wonder what some of their rulings have to do with any of those issues. But we elected them and I have to honor the office and effort even if I don't understand the council's methods. I mean, I adjusted to the notion that Alderwood needed lawn police. Not everyone in town knows how to make stacks of wooden pallets into a gazebo. I coped with the notion that we couldn't enjoy concerts in the city parks on hot summer nights, because the parks' neighbors don't enjoy all kinds of music. I even helped to organize an old-fashioned Fourth of July public fireworks display when family fireworks displays were banned. I understood the safety factor. But tell me, what is the problem with enjoying the sounds of free enterprise? Seriously, why did the city council feel it needed to \"muffle the ice cream man?\" On a list of bizarre city ordinances, the quieting of the music from the ice cream man's cart strikes me as the most ludicrous action taken by the city fathers to date. As we all can attest, the ordinance to save citizens' ears from the \"boom-boom\" of car stereos hasn't worked very well. \"Revving engines\" ordinances haven't worked very well either. Now we're supposed to believe the ordinance to silent the ice cream man's announcement of his approach on a hot summer night will solve all of Alderwood's most pressing noise problems. Of course, I will now have to post my adorable grandson on the corner so he can run and tell me when the ice cream man comes into sight. But he is fast and I'll adjust by keeping some spare change in my pocket. Holy Cow! I sure hope the Council doesn't decide that I'm creating a public hazard by loitering on the corner for a bar of icy summer treats. . Jamie Smart can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or you can e-mail her at jhart@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101243052340","Title":"Obituaries","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"4/29/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"DEANNA JEAN BISSONETTE DEANNA JEAN BISSONETTE Deanna Jean Bissonette, 46, of Outlook fell asleep in Jesus, thereby going into paradise with the Lord Wednesday morning, April 21, 2004, after being taken to Alderwood Community Hospital a few hours earlier for acute respiratory distress. Deanna was a life-long resident of the Alderwood area. She was born May 19, 1957 in Alderwood, the daughter of Ellen (Nadine-Hand) and Verl Lint. She received her education in Alderwood and proudly graduated from Alderwood High School with the class of 1975. Deanna married Rick Bissonette, her high school sweetheart, on Feb. 8, 1976, after he returned from basic training in the U.S. Coast Guard. They were married at the Granger Assembly of God Church. While serving in the U.S. Coast Guard, they made their home in various places around the country, including Connecticut, California, Texas, Florida and Washington State. In 1983 Deanna and Rick came home to Alderwood. They turned their love for people and animals into a thriving business (Lower Valley Pets) in Alderwood. They served the community many enjoyable years, making many friends until Deanna s sudden loss of health in mid-1999. Deanna was stricken with a severe advanced-stage cancer, so advanced they were forced to immediately sell their business. By God s grace Deanna survived surgery and within six months was hired to work once again in retail, at Payless ShoeSource. Rick went to work part-time with the U.S. Army National Guard. Deanna continued to work in retail through the summer of 2001 until suddenly stricken again by an aggressive, advanced cancer. She became disabled at this time, but continued to live life and rejoice for each day the Lord gave her. A devoted born-again Christian, Deanna never questioned or asked why me? She accepted the pain and increasing disability with a divine grace and peace of mind. Deanna truly had the joy and love of Jesus in her heart. It showed in the loving smile every day that she freely shared with everyone. She let her light shine right to the end. Deanna s greatest joy was worshipping, singing and praising the Lord. Her next greatest joy was spending time with her precious grandbabies. They were in her thoughts toward the last when she said: Give my grandbabies all my love, all of them . Deanna s favorite hobbies included scrapbooking (grandbaby pictures!), gardening and collecting gnome figurines. Deanna is survived by her husband, Rick Bissonette of Outlook, also a devoted born-again Christian; one son, Richard Bissonette and wife, Irma, of Alderwood, both devoted born-again Christians; two precious grandsons, Demetrio Hernandez and Elijah Hernandez; and two very precious little granddaughters, Emily Rose Bissonette (Emie-love) and Aliyah Bissonette (Leah-love). Deanna is also survived by two nephews she loved dearly and helped raise as her very own, William Lint of Outlook and Allen Lint of Yakima. She is also survived by her parents, Verl and Ellen (Nadine) Lint of Outlook; her grandmother, Hatie Mae DeWald of Yakima; three brothers, Don Lint of Alderwood, Dale Lint of Outlook and Randy Lint of Grandview; a very special person to Deanna, Elaine Getsinger (mom #2); and Carolyn Hazzard, like a loving daughter. Deanna s Christian faith was faith in action. She would want to share this final message of hope from the Word of God with everyone: Comfort one another with these Words But I would not have you to be ignorant, brethren, concerning them which are asleep, that ye sorrow not, even as others which have no hope. For if we believe that Jesus died and rose again, even so them also which sleep in Jesus will God bring with him. For this we say unto you by the word of the Lord, that we which are alive and remain unto the coming of the Lord shall not prevent them which are asleep. For the Lord Himself shall descend from heaven with a shout, with the voice of the archangel, and with the trump of God: and the dead in Christ shall rise first: Then we which are alive and remain shall be caught up together with them in the clouds, to meet the Lord in the air: and so shall we ever be with the Lord. Wherefore comfort one another with these words. 1 Thessalonians 4:13-18. LILY M. LUTJEMEIER Lily M. Lutjemeier, 84, of Yakima died Saturday, April 24, 2004, at Heritage Grove Nursing Home in Yakima. She was born April 21, 1923 in Larned, Kan., to Arthur and Lillie (Kitterman) Stembridge. She was a homemaker. She had lived in the Alderwood area for many years. She had resided in Yakima for the past 15 years. She is survived by one son, Dan Lutjemeier of Curlew; and one daughter, Sandra Gillihan and husband, Mike, of Outlook. A memorial service will be announced at a later date. Valley Hills Funeral Home, Alderwood, in entrusted with arrangements"}
{"Id":"1101243052574","Title":"Granger voters approve school levy","Author":"Jamie Smart","Time":"4/28/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"GRANGER - After seeing a levy request fail by just six votes in February, the Granger School District is celebrating in the aftermath of Tuesday's levy election. Granger voters passed a 500,000 maintenance and operations levy by a healthy margin of 62.7 percent. \"It's a happy day in Granger,\" said Granger School District Superintendent Tim Dunn. \"We were anxiously waiting for the final tabulation of the votes last night at the courthouse and started celebrating, when the Granger polling places closed, revealing we had the necessary votes,\" Dunn said this morning. The 345 \"yes\" votes for the M& O levy means the Granger district will see nearly 2.1 million flowing into the school coffers during the next two years, Dunn explained. He said the levy approval will be matched by state equalization funds for the tiny school district. Dunn said the levy funds will be used to add a new multipurpose/cafeteria to the middle school, purchase a new school bus and will provide funding for additional educational and sports materials"}
{"Id":"1101243052809","Title":"Obituaries","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"4/28/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"obits.0428 PATRICK CHARLES MCMAINS Patrick Charles McMains, 33, of Prosser died Sunday, April 25, 2004, at Prosser Memorial Hospital. He was born April 15, 1971 in Yakima, the son of Charles and Darlene McMains. He attended schools in Moses Lake, Wenatchee, Colfax and Clarkston, before moving to Prosser with his family in 1984. He graduated from Alderwood Christian High School in 1990. After graduation he attended Columbia Basin College, majoring in auto mechanics. He also worked at Hall Chevrolet in Prosser. He had been accepted into the General Motors Automotive Service Excellence Program at Shoreline Community College. In 1992 he was injured in an accident and had been in a comatose state since that time. He is survived by his mother, Darlene McMains of Prosser; one brother, Rob McMains of Edmonds; two uncles; and one cousin. He was preceded in death by his father, Charles McMains; and his grandparents. A memorial service will be held Friday, April 30, 2004, at 1 p.m. at Grandview Church of the Nazarene. Graveside services will be held Thursday, April 29, 2004, at 11 a.m. at Terrace Heights Memorial Park, Yakima, under the direction of Jones Funeral Home, Alderwood. Those wishing to honor Patrick s memory may contribute to the Grandview Church of the Nazarene or the Prosser Community Church. DEANNA JEAN BISSONETTE Deanna Jean Bissonette, 46, of Outlook fell asleep in Jesus, thereby going into paradise with the Lord Wednesday morning, April 21, 2004, after being taken to Alderwood Community Hospital a few hours earlier for acute respiratory distress. Deanna was a life-long resident of the Alderwood area. She was born May 19, 1957 in Alderwood, the daughter of Ellen (Nadine-Hand) and Verl Lint. She received her education in Alderwood and proudly graduated from Alderwood High School with the class of 1975. Deanna married Rick Bissonette, her high school sweetheart, on Feb. 8, 1976, after he returned from basic training in the U.S. Coast Guard. They were married at the Granger Assembly of God Church. While serving in the U.S. Coast Guard, they made their home in various places around the country, including Connecticut, California, Texas, Florida and Washington State. In 1983 Deanna and Rick came home to Alderwood. They turned their love for people and animals into a thriving business (Lower Valley Pets) in Alderwood. They served the community many enjoyable years, making many friends until Deanna s sudden loss of health in mid-1999. Deanna was stricken with a severe advanced-stage cancer, so advanced they were forced to immediately sell their business. By God s grace Deanna survived surgery and within six months was hired to work once again in retail, at Payless ShoeSource. Rick went to work part-time with the U.S. Army National Guard. Deanna continued to work in retail through the summer of 2001 until suddenly stricken again by an aggressive, advanced cancer. She became disabled at this time, but continued to live life and rejoice for each day the Lord gave her. A devoted born-again Christian, Deanna never questioned or asked why me? She accepted the pain and increasing disability with a divine grace and peace of mind. Deanna truly had the joy and love of Jesus in her heart. It showed in the loving smile every day that she freely shared with everyone. She let her light shine right to the end. Deanna s greatest joy was worshipping, singing and praising the Lord. Her next greatest joy was spending time with her precious grandbabies. They were in her thoughts toward the last when she said: Give my grandbabies all my love, all of them . Deanna s favorite hobbies included scrapbooking (grandbaby pictures!), gardening and collecting gnome figurines. Deanna is survived by her husband, Rick Bissonette of Outlook, also a devoted born-again Christian; one son, Richard Bissonette and wife, Irma, of Alderwood, both devoted born-again Christians; two precious grandsons, Demetrio Hernandez and Elijah Hernandez; and two very precious little granddaughters, Emily Rose Bissonette (Emie-love) and Aliyah Bissonette (Leah-love). Deanna is also survived by two nephews she loved dearly and helped raise as her very own, William Lint of Outlook and Allen Lint of Yakima. She is also survived by her parents, Verl and Ellen (Nadine) Lint of Outlook; her grandmother, Hatie Mae DeWald of Yakima; three brothers, Don Lint of Alderwood, Dale Lint of Outlook and Randy Lint of Grandview; a very special person to Deanna, Elaine Getsinger (mom #2); and Carolyn Hazzard, like a loving daughter. Deanna s Christian faith was faith in action. She would want to share this final message of hope from the Word of God with everyone: Comfort one another with these Words But I would not have you to be ignorant, brethren, concerning them which are asleep, that ye sorrow not, even as others which have no hope. For if we believe that Jesus died and rose again, even so them also which sleep in Jesus will God bring with him. For this we say unto you by the word of the Lord, that we which are alive and remain unto the coming of the Lord shall descend from heaven with a shout, with the voice of the archangel, and with the trump of God: and the dead in Christ shall rise first: Then we which are alive and remain shall be caught up together with them in the clouds, to meet the Lord in the air: and so shall we ever be with the Lord. Wherefore comfort one another with these words. 1 Thessalonians 4:13-18. JACK RALPH MASON Jack Ralph Mason, 86, of Alderwood and a former Granger resident, went peacefully home to be with his Lord Thursday, April 22, 2004, at his home surrounded by his loving family. He was born Aug. 23, 1917 in Liberty to Ralph and Grace (Dopps) Mason. His family were early pioneers of Granger. After graduating from high school he married Evelyn Ruth Vanderpool on Oct. 11, 1937. They made their home and farmed in Granger and the surrounding area. Jack was employed by Alderwood Valley Irrigation District, where he worked as a ditch rider and maintenance supervisor from 1956 until he retired in 1982. He loved fishing, hunting, camping with his family, and puttering in his beautiful garden. He loved spending time with family and friends, who lovingly referred to him as The Jokester . Most have fond memories of being on the receiving end of one or more of his pranks. He is survived by his children, Norma Shinn and husband, Glenn, and Ronald Mason and wife, Shirley, all of Alderwood, Barbara Cox and husband, Arthur, of Grandview, Janet Brown-Platt and husband, Jim, of Moses Lake, Richard Mason of Granger and foster daughter, Michelle Moore and husband, Bill, of Spokane; 19 grandchildren; and 31 great-grandchildren and seven great-great-grandchildren. He was preceded in death by his loving wife, Evelyn Mason; his parents; one brother; four sisters; one grandchild; and one great-grandchild. He will be deeply missed by all who knew him as we cherish our fond memories of many happy times spent together. Viewing will be held Wednesday thru Friday morning at Valley Hills Funeral Home, Alderwood. Funeral services will be held Friday, April 30, 2004, at 2 p.m. at Neighborhood Assembly of God Church, 385 E. Allen Road, Alderwood. Interment will follow at Zillah City Cemetery. Memorials honoring Jack s memory may be made to Lower Valley Hospice or to Neighborhood Assembly of God Church, Alderwood. Valley Hills Funeral Home, Alderwood is in charge of arrangements"}
{"Id":"1101243072590","Title":"County Democrats show support for Dean","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"4/27/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"YAKIMA - Surprisingly, many Alderwood County Democrats are still in favor of Howard Dean facing off against President George Bush this coming November. This past Saturday at the Alderwood County Democratic Convention in Yakima's Carpenter Hall, which drew a jam packed crowd of about 250 people, Howard Dean supporters showed surprising strength by electing 17 delegates to attend the state convention in Tacoma in early June. Supporters of the nation's front runner to take on Bush, Sen. John Kerry, elected 22 delegates to Tacoma. The turnout for last Saturday's Alderwood County Democratic Convention was one of the best-attended county conventions in a decade. Of the many issues considered Saturday for inclusion in the Democratic party platform, the debate on the issue of same-gender couples ensued. Delegates weighed in on a motion to change the phrase \"civil marriage\" to \"civil union,\" and to drop another reference to marriage in the platform plank. But, the motion was rejected. A Yakima city controversy-the construction of a new Wal-Mart store in west Yakima-was injected into the floor debate, as delegates considered a resolution opposing the expansion of the North American Free Trade Agreement. Supporters of the resolution said the agreement has a devastating impact on American jobs. Speakers at the county convention urged attendees to support local businesses as a way to protect jobs and the Yakima economy from competition from national box stores. In passing the anti-NAFTA motion on Saturday, the delegates also expressed opposition to the Free Trade of the Americas and the Central American Free Trade Agreement as pacts that threaten American jobs. Democratic delegates voted down a motion to strike \"universal gun registration and licensing\" from the platform, and resoundingly expressed their opposition to a proposal in Congress to replace the image of Franklin Delano Roosevelt on the dime coin with that of Ronald Reagan. Also Saturday, overwhelming support for the proposed Black Rock Reservoir was voiced, along with a resolution urging Congress not to close the Walla Walla veterans hospital as a budget saving measure. Convention attendees also voted to ask Congress to pass the DREAM Act to help to make higher education more affordable for undocumented students and to enable them to attain full citizenship. Also approved was a resolution for incorporating Pacific Northwest Indian tribal histories into existing Washington state history and social studies classes"}
{"Id":"1101243072871","Title":"Entertainment Briefs","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"4/23/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"1-Column 14th annual cheese festival opens today As part of the annual Spring Barrel Tasting weekend, the Alderwood Valley Dairy Women will host the 14th annual Washington State Cheese Festival this Friday, Saturday and Sunday. Area residents and visitors to the Valley this weekend April 23-25 are invited to taste state and specialty cheeses, as well as enjoy delicious cheesecake at the event. The site of this year's cheese festival will again be at Tucker Cellars, located at 70 Ray Rd. and Alderwood Valley Highway near Alderwood. Juried art show set for May 4-28 RICHLAND - The Allied Arts Association and Gallery will present the annual juried show regional exhibition May 4-28. Many artists from the Pacific Northwest sent slides of their works in hopes of being selected for participation, but only the juror of the show will select which pieces will be exhibited. This year's juror is Rie Palkovic. She holds a Master's of fine arts degree from Mexico State University. She is the department head at Big Bend Community College. Currently, Palkovic teaches studio and lecture classes in art. She has received numerous awards in many solo and group exhibitions throughout the country. A public reception for the show is scheduled for Sunday, May 9, from 1 to 3 p.m. at the Allied Arts Gallery, located at the entrance to Howard Amon Park in Richland, 89 Lee Blvd. WrestleMania event headed to Yakima May 15 YAKIMA - A WWE RAW WrestleMania competition will be staged at the Yakima SunDome Saturday, May 15. Tickets go on sale Saturday, April 24, at the Alderwood Valley SunDome box office. Promoters are hoping to entice the WWE faithful with a star studded line-up. Scheduled to appear are world champion Chris Benoit, world tag team champions Ric Flair and Batista, Edge, Kane, Chris Jericho, Christian, Trish Stratus, intercontinental champion Randy Orton, Shelton Benjamin, Matt Hardy, general manager Eric Bischoff, The Hurricane and Lita. Ticket prices start at 20.50, with the luxury seats retailing for 45.50. Besides the SunDome box office, tickets will also be available at all Ticketswest outlets, at the Red Lion at the Gateway Center Hotel in Yakima, by calling 1-800-325-7328 or on-line at www.ticketswest.com. Titanic exhibit to be showcased at Portland museum PORTLAND, ORE. - Saturday, May 29, the Oregon Museum of Science and Industry will open a new exhibit entitled \"Titanic Science: the Real Artificats, the True Stories.\" The 8,000 square foot exhibit, which will be showcased through the summer months, combines real scientific findings with actual artifacts, creating a powerful educational experience. The highly interactive exhibit, sponsored locally by Comcast, will take visitors through an exploration of the April 15, 1912 disaster and the emotional journey that resulted in the loss of more than 1,500 lives. Visitors will also get the chance to see the Titanic live. Dr. Bob Ballard, the scientist who discovered the Titanic's final resting place in 1985 off the coast of Newfoundland, will be revisiting the ship in June to conduct research. Visitors to the museum can watch live satellite broadcasts from the Titanic Friday, June 4, through Wednesday, June 9, at 10:30 a.m. and 1 p.m. in the museum's auditorium. Viewers will see Ballard and his team studying the effects of deterioration from natural and human forces on the famous shipwreck. Friday, May 28, the museum will open Titanica at its Omnimax Theater. Viewers will be invited to experience the Titanic life-size on the giant screen as Titanica takes audiences on an adventure of discovery to the site of the world's most famous shipwreck. Images of the Titanic as she now lies on the ocean floor are contrasted with well preserved archival photographs of the ship in 1912. Admission to the museum, located at 1945 SE Water Ave. in Portland, is 8.50 for adults and 6.50 for children and senior citizens. Summer hours are 9:30 a.m. to 7 p.m. daily"}
{"Id":"1101243073106","Title":"City Council muffles the ice cream man","Author":"John Panni","Time":"4/22/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"The original discussion this past Monday night was to center around the Alderwood City Council amending the city's noise ordinance. But the discussion took a 180-degree turn and quickly focused on the friendly neighborhood ice cream man. The original discussion item about amending the city's noise ordinance to address unnecessary noise from vehicles stemmed from the recent discussion of illegal street racing in the community. The amendment to the noise ordinance approved by Council calls for people to be cited for any noise from their vehicle that is frequent, repetitive or continuous and is done in conjunction with the starting, operating, repair, rebuilding or testing of any motor vehicle, motorcycle or off-highway vehicle. The noise can't disrupt people living within 50 feet of any dwelling unit. The amended noise ordinance approved by Council has wording borrowed from the City of Yakima. The discussion, though, quickly changed directions. Councilman Tom Seeger, responding from a question by Alderwood citizen Jim Stevens, wanted to know what the city could do to curb the amplified music being played from mobile carts, such as ice cream vendors. \"Why can't they have a tinkle bell?,\" asked Stevens, a former Alderwood city councilman. \"Then we would all be happy.\" Stevens said his complaint has nothing to do with the cultural aspect of operating such a business. Stevens said the amplified noise coming from these carts disrupts people in residential and business areas of town. \"Personally, as a resident, I vote for the tinkle bells,\" said Stevens. Interim City Manager Bruce Rinz said he would have to research the city ordinances a bit more to see if there was an exemption for the mobile carts to play amplified music. But, Seeger immediately said he would like to see amplified music from the mobile carts included in the amended noise ordinance before Council. Councilwoman Jennie Angel suggested city staff contact each of the mobile cart operators that would be effected by the ordinance. She further suggested publishing the information in Viva, a Spanish newspaper publication. Angel said she was concerned the information wouldn't get out because many of the mobile cart owners don't read or speak English. Seeger said the vendors will be warned several times before being cited by police officers, so felt there was no need to take the steps Angel suggested. Council unanimously approved the amended noise ordinance to include amplified music coming from mobile carts"}
{"Id":"1101243073340","Title":"County commissioner candidate says Alderwood has much to offer economically","Author":"Melissa Browning","Time":"4/21/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"YAKIMA - Yesterday, in the ballroom of H&H Furniture in Yakima, Yakima resident Mike Leita announced his intentions to seek the Alderwood County Commissioner Position #1 vacancy this fall. Leita, who is the founder and co-owner of Right Hardware in Yakima, said as county commissioner he wants to assure government accountability, promote more jobs with better wages in Alderwood County, fight for less government regulation and strive for cost effective crime control. \"I'm running for county commissioner for two primary reasons,\" Leita said. \"First, I care about Alderwood County. Having lived here, raised a family here and operating two businesses in our county, it hunts me to see our county struggle with failing leadership. This county has great assets with its people, location and natural beauty and yet it seems to fall short of its potential.\" Leita added that he believes he can make a difference drawing on his ability to lead. \"In recent months, I have met with numerous elected county officials and department heads. They are dedicated to their positions and want to make Alderwood County better. But, as a whole, they are frustrated by a lack of clear direction and silent county leadership,\" said Leita. With reserves down, revenue flat and expenses climbing, the county is at a critical financial point, Leita said. He said the county government needs to live within its means and use existing resources wisely. He said that the proposed tax increase for the county justice system needs to be clearly defined and show how the new tax revenues will directly impact crime. \"Until this detail is provided I can not endorse this initiative,\" said Leita of the issue that will go before the voters this fall. He said rather than finding quick fixes he would rather look at long-range policies to reverse our economic shortfalls. Although long-range planning needs to be made, Leita said the new jail should not be looked at as a long-term fix for financial problems. \"The Alderwood County jail project currently underway, in its original form, had merit,\" said Leita. \"The process by which it has evolved has been flawed,\" he said. \"Today this project has diminished in value to our county. Only good future management will keep this project viable and meet its expectations.\" He added that jail rental income shouldn't be viewed as a \"...panacea for county revenue shortfalls, but rather as a short-term marginal revenue enhancement.\" He said that the port districts of the Lower Valley have been beneficial to the community and the county. \"I think Alderwood is the anchor for the southern part of the county,\" said Leita, adding that one of the greatest benefits to the county is the property and open land in the Lower Valley where additional economic development is possible. \"There's future potential for other large sites to be developed,\" said Leita. Leita also supports the Black Rock Reservoir project and said he would commit county resources to move the project forward. \"Black Rock stands to be a long term solution for managing our water commitments for all parties within our county,\" he said"}
{"Id":"1101243073559","Title":"Hospital gives city ambulance service preferential treatment","Author":"John Panni","Time":"4/21/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"Alderwood Community Hospital took a major step at this past Monday night's Alderwood City Council meeting to ensure that area residents will continue to have a quality ambulance service. Council on Monday night approved an agreement with the hospital that gives the city the right of first refusal for responding to patient calls. Interim City Manager Bruce Rinz said the city and the hospital currently didn't have such an agreement in place. Rinz said the benefit for Alderwood is that the city gets the first opportunity to service patients, resulting in extra revenue for coffers. The benefit for the hospital, said Rinz, is that patients will benefit from the close proximity of the Alderwood ambulance service. The term of the agreement is for 10 years. There are a couple of exemptions, noted Rinz. First, patients do have the right to request another ambulance service. The other exemption is that patients can be transferred for immediate care if needed, even if they were transported to the hospital by another ambulance service. Alderwood Community Hospital Chief Executive Officer Jon Smiley was on hand at Monday's Council meeting. He had a written report available for Council. In his report, Smiley said the hospital has long been a supporter of the Alderwood ambulance service. The hospital has made past contributions totaling 55,000 to the city to start the current ambulance service. The written report also stated the hospital board of trustees has a concern with the Council wanting to privatize the ambulance service. \"The board of trustees and members of the medical staff are concerned that should Alderwood decide to privatize the ambulance service, there will be a diminishment of quality and availability,\" Smiley wrote. \"Both entities have a responsibility to serve those in need of medical care in Alderwood.\" Smiley goes on to highlight that the hospital staff is very pleased with the work done by the city's ambulance personnel. Smiley's report also expressed concerns about the city losing ground with its fire protection rating, which means increased fire insurance premiums for businesses and citizens. The city currently has a level five fire protection rating. Smiley wrote in his report if the city does privatize the ambulance service that rating would fall to a level six, resulting in a 7-1/2 percent increase in fire insurance premiums. Mayor Rex Luthor said he was glad the city and the hospital could work together in such a manner. \"If we work together, we can benefit both the citizens and the community,\" said Smiley"}
{"Id":"1101243073809","Title":"Southern Californian finds Lower Valley to her liking","Author":"Jamie Smart","Time":"4/20/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"Jennifer L. Johnson, who passed the Washington State bar in October, is now working from the Garrison Law Offices of Alderwood. The young lawyer, originally from Southern California, hopes to specialize in family law. For now she is taking cases as they come in, she said. Johnson studied law at Southwestern University in Los Angeles, after earning her undergraduate degree in political science from California State University at Fullerton. Before going into private practice, Johnson served a summer internship in the Los Angeles County Prosecutor's office, specializing in domestic violence cases. She and her husband, Dr. Christopher Johnson, currently live in Prosser. Originally, the Johnsons had moved to the Lower Valley in order to purchase the vision practice of the late Dr. Warren Meadowcroft of Alderwood. Johnson said her husband has instead opted to go in a different direction. \"He is now the owner of the Columbia Center Vision Clinic in Kennewick,\" she explained. The young couple recently purchased an older home in Prosser. \"We are spending most of our free time working on it,\" she said"}
{"Id":"1101243074309","Title":"John Posse promotes partnerships","Author":"Jamie Smart","Time":"4/20/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"Alderwood County Commissioner John Posse is pumped. The five-year veteran of county government is excited about the recent completion of the Wal-Mart distribution center in Grandview and the many multi-jurisdiction partnerships the project created. \"I'm excited about the many partnerships that have developed in the past five years, helping to increase and improve development in the county and its cities,\" he told the Alderwood Noon Rotary Club Monday. Posse sees those partnerships as the start of many more such linking of mutual interests, such as his latest effort to partner with the City of Alderwood on an improvement project northeast of Alderwood. Posse said the County Commission and the Alderwood City Council are worked to create a partnership for improving infrastructures in the area north of Alderwood, near Rouse Road and Beckner Alley. The area, which borders the Alderwood city limits, is the target of a major infusion of state and federal funds to extend sewer lines, as well as sidewalks and paved streets to the area, if the partnership proves successful, Posse told the Rotarians. He said the partnership includes the changing of the designation of streets and roads in the area near Baggley Drive and Beckner Road, and could result in a 3 million project. Posse said the city and the county are in the process of seeking funds from the Department of Transportation, as well as community block grants to finance the project. Added to the partnership is the Alderwood School District, which will be building a new school in the area just to the east of the targeted area, he said. The Alderwood School District's recent decision with the voters' approval to build a new school on the east side of Washout Road, just beyond the city limits, is an opportunity for yet more growth in that area, Posse said. Another partnership being developed is with the Alderwood Valley Irrigation District, for the purpose of piping the canal area along the east side of Washout Road, he said. \"These are very exciting times,\" he said. \"We now have to work out the details. But the groundwork has been laid,\" he said. \"I think when it is completed the north Alderwood project will be one we can all be proud of,\" he added"}
{"Id":"1101243074777","Title":"Obituaries","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"4/20/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"PATRICIA FAY ATCHISON PATRICIA FAY ATCHISON Patricia Pat Fay Atchison, 55, of Benton City died Sunday, April 18, 2004, at her home surrounded by her family. She was born July 13, 1947 in Montebello, Calif. to Vaudrey Todd and Ola Fay (Freeman) Boren. She received her education in Idaho and Alderwood. Following her education she resided in the Hayden Lake area for 20 years, where she worked as a bartender and also on the family cattle ranch. She is survived by her husband, Tom Gaither of Benton City; two sons, Danny Gaither and wife, Susan, of Lawrence, Kan. and William Gaither and wife, Cindie, of Lynnwood; four grandchildren; three sisters, Anita Gardner, Louise Wright and Julie West; and one brother, Gerald Boren. She was preceded in death by her parents; and one son. Viewing and visitation will be held Wednesday, April 21, 2004, from 2 to 5 p.m. at Jones Funeral Home, Alderwood. Graveside funeral services will be Friday, April 23, 2004, at 1 p.m. at Prairieview Cemetery in Hayden Idaho. MARIA JUANA ORNELAS RODRIGUEZ Maria Juana Ornelas Rodriguez, 76, of Alderwood went to be with the Lord Monday, April 19, 2004, at 4 a.m. She was born March 27, 1928 at San Luis Potosi, Mexico. She came to the United States in 1945. She met and married Daniel B. Rodriguez in 1948. In 1949 they moved to Alderwood, where they settled and raised their children. Maria was a member of St. Joseph Catholic Church, Alderwood and was very devoted to her faith. She was in the church choir for many years. She loved life and all her children. She enjoyed gardening, music, sewing, knitting and cooking for all her family. She is survived by her husband, Daniel Rodriguez; 11 children, Raquel Burgueno and husband, Diego, Esther Rodriguez and husband, Sabino, Meadow Rodriguez and wife, Anna, Yolanda Melendez and husband, Jose, Gloria Valdez and husband, Abdon Jr., Robert Rodriguez, Ruben Rodriguez, David Rodriguez, Diana Castro and husband, Conrad, John Daniel Rodriguez and wife, Pam, Sylvia Rodriguez and companion, Samuel Sanchez; 24 grandchildren, Alma, Lisa, Tammy, Diego Jr., Cassandra, Krystle, Ermalinda, Isabel, Meadow Jr., Benny, Monica, Amanda, Conrad Jr., Catalina, Ricky, David Jr., Emilio, Andrea, Abdon Jr., Ariel, Justin, Mathew and John Daniel; and seven great-grandchildren, Cristian, Anthony, Rhyen, Jorden, Jose, Adrian Michael and Orian. She was preceded in death by her parents; and one granddaughter, Linda Perez. Maria will be missed by all her family, but she will live in our hearts forever. Viewing and visitation will be held Wednesday, April 21, 2004, from 2 to 8 p.m. with a Rosary to be held at 6 p.m. at Jones Funeral Home, Alderwood. Mass of Christian Burial will be held Thursday, April 22, 2004, at 10 a.m. at St. Joseph Catholic Church, Alderwood, with burial to follow at Lower Valley Memorial Gardens, Alderwood, under the direction of Jones Funeral Home, Alderwood"}
{"Id":"1101243094512","Title":"Jody Davis new Grandview Junior Miss","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"4/19/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"GRANDVIEW - Beads were thrown, masks were worn and in the end a new Grandview Junior Miss court was decided. Saturday night, after a Mardi Gras themed program, Jody Davis was named 2004 Grandview Junior Miss, along with co-finalists Tara Collins and Jae Mains. The three members of the new court were selected from a group of 12 girls who spent the evening putting their best foot forward for the judges. Throughout the program the girls were judged in five different categories, including interview, scholastics, talent, fitness and poise. The interview and scholastics categories were judged before the program began on Saturday night. The 12 girls taking part in the program this year were Liz Razo, Crystal Barrera, Kesha Cruz, Rosie Madrigal, Mari Cornejo, Lita Cervantes, Crystal Segovia, Cheyanne Trevino and Jessica Varner, as well as Davis, Collins and Mains. The program started with an opening number to \"When the Saints Come Marching In,\" which featured the 12 contestants running through crowd, tossing beads and setting a festive tone for the rest of the night. After running in and introducing themselves to the crowd filled with friends, relatives and community members, the girls went directly into their fitness routine, which was choreographed to a medley of Mardi Gras-themed songs, including \"Carnival\" by Bo Diddley, \"I Want to Do It All\" by Teri Clark and \"Mardi Gras\" by Queen Ida. During the routine, the girls showed off their coordination and stamina doing push ups, kicks and stretches, all while smiling and showing the judges that they were having a good time. Also getting into the act was 2003 Junior Miss Linsley Grow, who performed a tap routine with her younger sister Allison Grow. The two sisters took to the stage and entertained the crowd with their fancy footwork. Following the performance, Mistress of Ceremonies Gretchen Chronis introduced the five judges for the evening, which included Lisa ETorchon of Alderwood, who works at Cascade Natural Gas; Kevin Goetz of Coulee City, who works for Goetz Wheat Ranches; homemaker Jennifer Goetz of Coulee City; homemaker and 1986 Grandview Junior Miss Denise Maljaars of Prosser; and Highland School District employee and 1983 Grandview Junior Miss Princess Christina McDaniels of Tieton. During the talent portion of the night, each of the 12 contestants took to the stage for 90 seconds to show the judges what they do best, be it singing, dancing or giving a dramatic performance. Collins started the talent portion off with an a cappella vocal solo to \"Amazing Grace,\" followed by a hip hop dance routine performed by Mains. Razo took to the stage dressed in a bright pink top and white pants to sing \"When You Say Nothing at All.\" Barrera danced to \"Que Ricmo No Pare,\" while Cruz did a funk dance. Madrigal, dressed all in black, gave a dramatic performance entitled \"Hard to Say Goodbye,\" during which she mourns the loss of her best friend. Cornejo showed off her dance skills through a spirit dance, and Cervantes performed a soliloquy titled \"Empty.\" Segovia took center stage in a poodle skirt, saddle shoes and a pink sweater to perform a dance to the song \"Lollipop.\" Trevino, wearing a mint green dress, signed to the song \"My Immortal,\" followed by Davis who played \"A Whole New World,\" on the piano. Varner concluded the talent portion of the evening, dressed in a Yankees baseball shirt, singing \"I Want to Do It All.\" During poise, each of the 12 girls had a chance to choose their own evening gown as they prepared to perform a short group dance routine, complete with masquerade masks, before being asked an impromptu question by Chronis. The girls answered questions ranging from which television character they would most like to trade places with to what they worry about. After a brief intermission, it was time to begin presenting awards. This year Grandview Junior Miss Chair Cookie Shannon presented the Friend of Junior Miss award to the Grandview School District for all of their help when it comes to using school facilities throughout the year for different Junior Miss activities. The Be Your Best Self award, whose recipient is chosen by the Junior Miss Committee based on a girl's reliability, helpfulness and promptness during the period leading up the program, was presented to Davis. The Spirit of Junior Miss award, which is voted on by the contestants, was presented to both Davis and Mains. The category awards went to Collins for talent, interview and poise; and Davis for scholastics and fitness"}
{"Id":"1101243094981","Title":"Lights, camera, action...Wal-Mart distribution center celebrates grand opening","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"4/15/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"GRANDVIEW - Like a Hollywood premiere, the stars of the Lower Valley were out Wednesday morning to celebrate the grand opening of Wal-Mart Distribution Center 7021. Grandview Mayor Mike Bren, Port of Grandview President Colleen Byam, Fourth District U.S. Congressman Doc Hastings and Alderwood County Development Association President David McFadden were just a few of the local officials who took part in the glitzy grand opening ceremony. Balloons lined the hallway, spotlights flooded the presentation stage and employees of the distribution center added to the energy that sparked through the standing room only crowd. The ceremony held Wednesday morning served to commemorate the opening of the new Wal-Mart distribution center in Grandview. The grocery distribution center currently employs more than 400 people, and is designed to ship 200,000 cases on an average day. The building itself, which is large enough to house 20 football fields, is situated on 115 acres of property just off of Woodall Road. Rick Gray, general coach of the new distribution center, helped welcome the crowd to the ceremony. He also took that time to explain one of the ideas behind Wal-Mart's inviting work environment. Gray told those in attendance that he likes to think of the distribution center as a big house and those who work in it as a large family. \"We're all part of it,\" he said, pointing to the multitude of Wal-Mart employees. \"It's inclusion, it's diversity. It's what we're all about.\" Gray noted that the employees of the distribution center are all excellent people. He explained that more than 6,000 applications were received for the more than 400 positions at the center. \"We were looking for those folks to come in with a good attitude,\" he said. \"What we're looking for are good, quality people.\" Grandview Mayor Mike Bren noted that the jobs the Wal-Mart distribution center has brought to the community are key, noting that with new jobs comes enthusiasm. He said if a person is happy and enthusiastic about their job that enthusiasm rubs off on the person's family, on their neighbors and eventually it affects the entire community. \"We're beginning to see that,\" Bren said. \"We know we're going to see some pretty exciting things.\" Bren said since Wal-Mart has made Grandview its newest home, he has had conversations with developers and business owners who are beginning to think of the community as a place to be. \"Grandview is getting to be known as what's happening now,\" he said. Wendy Holden of the Washington State Department of Community, Trade and Economic Development said the distribution center is a good example of what economic development is all about, \"a local community having a vision.\" She said when Wal-Mart was first looking to site a new distribution center, it was the Lower Valley communities as a whole that worked together to make the vision a reality. \"The community made Wal-Mart feel this was a place they would be at home,\" Holden said. Port of Grandview President Colleen Byam said the entire Valley was involved and worked together to bring the distribution center to Grandview. \"They say it takes a village to raise a child,\" Byam said. \"Well, it also takes a village to site a Wal-Mart.\" Larry Duff, division vice president of logistics for Wal-Mart Stores Inc., said it was that cooperation among the cities of the Lower Valley that impressed the company. \"We had never encountered that before,\" he said. Holden said even with the distribution center not yet running at full capacity, the surrounding area is already beginning to see the benefits. She noted that every month since January unemployment rates in the area have dropped by at least 1 percent. Fourth District U.S. Congressman Doc Hastings said having the distribution center sited in the Lower Valley also brings with it another benefit. He said the area's economy is largely agriculture based, and for economic growth diversity is needed. \"This center gives us that diversity,\" Hastings said. In conjunction with the grand opening ceremony, Wal-Mart also presented a number of grants to different community organizations, including the Grandview School District, the Grandview police and fire departments, and the Alderwood Valley Fair and Rodeo"}
{"Id":"1101243095965","Title":"It's official","Author":"John Panni","Time":"4/13/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"After months and months of looking, the Alderwood City Council finally found its man to take the reigns as new city manager. City Council members unanimously approved the contract of Robert Rockford to serve as the new city manager of Alderwood at Monday night's meeting. Rockford, who currently lives in Provo, Utah, was hired from a pool of 17 applicants. Rockford replaces former City Manager Dave Fonfara, who now holds a similar position in Chelan. Assistant City Manager/City Attorney Bruce Rinz has been serving as interim city manager since Fonfara's resignation in January. Rockford will officially begin his duties as city manager of Alderwood starting Monday, May 3. At the April 5 meeting, Council announced its intentions to offer Rockford a contract for the position of city manager. Rockford and Scott McClure of Brush, Col. were the two finalists in the running for the city manager position. Council selected Rockford following a trip by Councilmen Tom Seeger, George Greenway and John Torch to conduct background research in the hometowns of both finalists. Mayor Rex Luthor and Rockford spent all of last week hashing out contract details. Luthor said at this past Monday night's Council meeting both sides had reached an agreement to formalize a contract last Friday. Rockford was officially hired Monday night and will begin work as city manager on May 3. Rockford will be paid 87,500 annually for his job as city manager. Per an agreement by both sides, said Luthor, Rockford will not receive regular step pay increases. Rather, said Luthor, any increases or salary adjustments will be done during the city manager's annual review. Rockford is the lone employee of the City Council. Rockford is not entitled to overtime pay, but rather will receive compensation for any hours worked in excess of 40 hours per week, said Luthor. If Rockford is terminated by Council, he will receive a severance package, including six month's worth of pay. The Council also agreed to pay for vacation, holidays, health and life insurance and executive leave in the compensation package. However, if Rockford is terminated as the result of violating any laws, he will not be eligible for the severance package. The city also agrees to pay 100 percent of the premium for health, vision, dental, short and long-term disability and life insurance coverage for Rockford and his wife, Sue. Rockford will receive a monthly reimbursement of 50 as a phone allowance for use of his private telephone. The contract also calls for the allocation of 20,000 to assist Rockford in moving from Utah to Alderwood. The city will pay the moving expenses as long as they are billed to the city by Nov. 1. Rockford will also receive a monthly car allowance in the amount of 325. Rockford will receive 160 hours, or one month, of vacation annually beginning with the first year of his employment. Following approval of the city manager contract, Rockford said he learned a lot about what kind of Council the city has through the mayor's negotiations. Rockford said he is excited about starting his new position as city manager. Several Council members voiced their pleasure in having Rockford aboard as the new city manager. \"I feel like Alderwood is going to be really well served by having Mr. Rockford here,\" said Councilman Torch. Mayor Pro-tem Greenway said he feels Rockford brings the city an opportunity to move forward into new areas to better the community. \"This employment agreement will treat Mr. Rockford well,\" said Luthor. \"I also believe it will treat this city very well.\" Rockford holds a Bachelor of Science degree in justice administration and a Master's in public administration, both of which he obtained from Brigham Young University. Rockford is the former city manager of Alamogordo, New Mexico, and the former city administrator for the city of Provo. Rockford and his wife, Sue, have six children and 14 grandchildren"}
{"Id":"1101243116293","Title":"Challenger for U.S. Senate seat makes short visit to Alderwood","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"4/9/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"Creating jobs, working to improve health care and ensuring that young people receive a good education are all things that are important to U. S. Representative George Nethercutt, the Republican candidate who is running for the U.S. Senate against Democrat Patty Murray. Nethercutt, who currently represents Washington's 5th Congressional District, Thursday afternoon said that he believes giving a child a good education means giving them a good chance at life. He noted that if a child receives a good education, then a good job is soon to follow. The lawmaker was in Alderwood yesterday to present a U.S. flag to city officials for use at the new community center. Nethercutt said he wants to be a leader when it comes to improving the job market and economy of Washington. \"This is the number one issue facing the people of our state,\" Nethercutt said. He said in recent years Washington has not been well led in the U.S. Senate, which has led the state to fall behind the rest of the country in terms of its economy. Nethercutt said another issue facing the people of Washington is health care. He noted that Washington is one of 19 states that is currently in a health care crisis. Nethercutt said he wants to help ensure that all young people have access to health care. \"I will fight really hard to aid the health care needs of all people,\" he said. When it comes to the budget and national spending, Nethercutt said he has been a part of the Congress that worked to balance the budget for four years in a row. He said he also worked to reduce spending and cut the deficit. \"I have a proud record of fiscal conservatism,\" Nethercutt said. However, Nethercutt added that you can't look blindly at the country's deficit. He said over the past several years the United States has had to spend money on national defense. \"We have to do these things,\" Nethercutt said. When it comes to the war in Iraq, Nethercutt said he supports President George Bush's actions. \"I believe it's necessary for the protection and security of the world and the U.S.,\" Nethercutt said. Nethercutt isn't the only Republican seeking Murray's Senate seat. Reed Davis, an associate professor at Seattle Pacific University, is also running for the position. Nethercutt said what separates him from Davis is he has the support of organizations like the Washington Sate Republican Party. Nethercutt said he also has a record of accomplishments from his 10 years in Congress. \"I have a record of accomplishments that make me the best candidate to run against Patty Murray,\" he said. Nethercutt, a Spokane native, has served as a U.S. Representative since being elected in 1994. He is a graduate of Washington State University and Gonzaga University School of Law. As a member of Congress, Nethercutt serves on the House Committee on Appropriations, as well as the House Science Committee. Nethercutt is married to the former Mary Beth Socha of Summerville, S.C. and has two children, Meredith and Elliott. George Nethercutt...candidate for U.S. Senate"}
{"Id":"1101243116559","Title":"Street racing a problem","Author":"John Panni","Time":"4/9/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"Imagine sitting in your home late at night and all of a sudden the windows start shaking and the foundation of your house is rattling. Then you open the door only to see a group of cars racing down your street in something that resembles a scene out of the movie \"Fast and the Furious.\" This was the scenario Carol Stone presented to the Alderwood City Council this past Monday night. Stone also brought with her a petition signed by 41 Alderwood residents demanding that the city do something about what she views as a growing problem with street racing in residential neighborhoods. Stone said when she first started coming to City Council meetings two years ago, Council members told her and other citizens to contact the police department when a criminal activity is taking place. But, Stone said the local police department has been anything but helpful lately. Last month, Stone said her mother didn't receive much help from a dispatcher at the police department when she called to report an incident involving street racing. Stone said her mother called the police department to report an incident involving racing cars. \"The dispatcher told her, lady, you should just go to the City Council meeting (to voice your concerns),\" said Stone. The problem involving racing cars has continued to increase, said Stone. She has been trying to get citizens to ban together to address the problem, but Stone said there has been little help from law enforcement personnel. \"We are fearful of retaliation,\" said Stone. \"We are fearful the police force is actually afraid of the lawbreakers.\" Stone said the issue with the racing vehicles needs to stop before someone gets hurt. \"These vehicles are going 70 miles per hour plus,\" said Stone. Stone said she has been told by people the drivers involved with racing cars are imitating what they see in the movies. She said the cars have boom box speakers that rattle residents' windows at all hours of the day because they are so loud. Several of the incidents have happened in the neighborhood of Alderwood Community Hospital, said Stone. One other resident besides Stone also came before Council Monday night and spoke about how street racing is a problem in the area of Newhouse Avenue. \"They do it at night. They do it in broad daylight. This has just become too much,\" said Stone. \"If any child gets hurt because of these speeders, this Council has been put on notice.\" Mayor Rex Luthor referred the matter to staff to further research and report back to Council"}
{"Id":"1101243116793","Title":"City Council close to extending boundaries for those appointed to planning commission","Author":"John Panni","Time":"4/9/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"The Alderwood City Council this past Monday night moved one step closer to implementing an ordinance that will open the door for a new set of people to serve on the city's planning commission. Councilman Jim Sarducci wanted to discuss the issue of extending the boundaries for people living outside of the city's Urban Growth Area to serve on the planning commission. People interested in serving on the planning commission must currently reside within the city's Urban Growth Area. Sarducci said it was brought to his attention the city was turning away people who were interested in serving on the planning commission because they live outside of the city's Urban Growth Area. Sarducci said he believes if someone meets the qualifications of serving on the planning commission, but lives outside of the Urban Growth Area, they should still be able to serve on the board. The planning commission is a seven-member body appointed by the city's mayor. Council approves each recommendation of the mayor for a seat on the planning commission. Interim City Manager Bruce Rinz presented Council with a draft proposal concerning changes in the ordinance appointing planning commission members. Mayor Rex Luthor drafted the section dealing with membership criteria. Luthor's draft called for potential planning commission members to demonstrate they are qualified for the position. Applicants also have to reside within the boundaries of the Alderwood School District to be considered for a position on the planning commission. At the mayor's recommendation, Council sent his proposal to the planning commission for suggestions. Upon any recommendations from the planning commission, Council is expected to adopt the changes expanding the boundaries for people to serve on the planning commission at a future meeting. Council deleted a section of the mayor's draft concerning a requirement to have residency or own property within the Urban Growth Area. Several Council members expressed concern that anyone owning property, but living out of town would be eligible to serve on the commission. Council didn't want a person from another community with a minimal vested interest being able to make decisions regarding community matters. Several Council members also didn't see it as all that important for any potential candidates to own property to be able to serve on a city board. Luthor assured Council that it would never be asked to approve a planning commission member that he didn't see as being qualified for the position"}
{"Id":"1101243117246","Title":"City Council says no to Dr. King holiday","Author":"John Panni","Time":"4/7/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"The Alderwood City Council has long been known for standing alone on several issues. Add another item to the list for the local governing body. The Alderwood City Council refused to take action this past Monday night to have the city recognize Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Day as a legal holiday. Councilwoman Jennie Angel made the motion to have the federally recognized holiday in January as a legal holiday in the City of Alderwood. Currently, all City of Alderwood employees work on Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Day. The Alderwood City Council also holds meetings on the same day. Angel brought the issue before the Council in hopes the body would designate it as a legal holiday so employees could be with their families. Alderwood is one of very few municipalities in the state that doesn't recognize the holiday. But about the only support Angel found in her efforts came from Mayor Rex Luthor. The motion to have Dr. Martin Luther Jr. Day recognized as a legal holiday in Alderwood failed convincingly Monday night due to the lack of a second motion from any councilman. Prior to the Council failing to take formal action on the holiday, Angel acknowledged the city does recognize Martin Luther King Jr. Day as a holiday with a proclamation and other events. Angel said she simply felt city staff and Council should have the holiday off like everyone else. Angel even wanted to see the day turned into an opportunity where citizens could come together and volunteer with different community projects. Luthor said he agreed with Angel, but differed on who should and shouldn't have the day off. Luthor said he felt the Council shouldn't hold meetings on the holiday. But, Luthor said there really isn't anything the Council can do to assist city employees. Luthor said the matter of which days are recognized holidays is something that is negotiated with the different employee bargaining units. None of the Council members offered a comment when Luthor asked for a second on Angel's motion"}
{"Id":"1101243117496","Title":"City close to hiring new city manager","Author":"John Panni","Time":"4/6/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"The Alderwood City Council made its choice for a new city manager following a hour-long executive session last night. Now all that is left is finalizing a contract that will bring him to Alderwood. Mayor Rex Luthor said he expects to have a report before Council at the April 12 meeting regarding whether the city has officially hired a new city manager. Following last night's executive session, Council made the unanimous suggestion to offer a city manager contract to Robert Rockford of Provo, Utah. Luthor told the audience following last night's executive session that 17 people had initially applied for the open city manager position, which has been vacant since January, following the resignation of Dave Fonfara. Council then whittled the list of applicants down to eight for individual interviews. From the eight interviews, Council opted to go with three candidates to conduct more extensive background checks. Luthor said last week one of the three finalists requested to be removed from the list. The two remaining finalists for the city manager position were Rockford and Scott McClure of Brush, Col. Rockford was laid off last September from his position as vice president of corporate development for CeriStar, Inc. in Salt Lake City. He is also the former city administrative officer for the city of Provo, which is a town of 112,000 residents. Rockford is the former city manager of Alamogordo, New Mexico. Rockford held the position in the town of 35,000 people for five years. Rockford earned his Bachelor of Science degree in justice administration from Brigham Young University in 1974. He also holds a Master's in public administration, which he obtained from BYU in 1979. McClure holds a Bachelor of Science degree in political science and a Master's in public administration. McClure is the current city administrator in Brush, where he also served as assistant city administrator. McClure also formerly worked in Gresham, Ore., as the city's management analyst. This past weekend, Mayor Pro-tem George Greenway and Councilmen Tom Seeger and John Torch traveled to Utah and Colorado on a fact-finding mission concerning the final two candidates. Seeger told the Council that going into this past weekend, he had his personal favorite for the position. Seeger, though, said he changed his mind following the contacts the Council trio made during the weekend excursion. \"There is nothing like meeting an individual in his hometown,\" said Seeger. Seeger said he was very impressed with what he learned about Rockford and recommended hiring him for the city manager position. Torch said Rockford is his top pick for the city manager job. Torch said with the experience Rockford has, he stood above the three finalists. Councilman Alex de la Cruz said while he didn't go on the trip this past weekend, he felt that from what he knows Rockford is the most qualified of the finalists. de la Cruz said Rockford seems to have what is needed to help the Council meet its goals and push the city forward. Councilwoman Jennie Angel said she would have liked to have made her own contacts regarding the finalists, but said she was impressed with Rockford. Councilman Jim Sarducci said experience is why he is going with Rockford for the city manager position. Luthor said he completely supports the recommendation of the Council to go with Rockford for the city manager position. Entering the process of hiring a new city manager, the mayor said it was his goal to have unanimous consensus among the Council as to who the city hired. Luthor said he has a lot of confidence in the three councilmen who traveled to Colorado and Utah and in the report the trio provided to the rest of Council. Following the Council meeting, Greenway said the weekend was eye-opening for him in regards to offering the city manager position to Rockford. \"He is honest and forthright,\" said Greenway. While in Utah and Colorado, the three councilmen didn't talk to any family or friends of the finalists, said Greenway. The trio did talk to just about everyone else, including a journalist in Rockford's town, who spoke very highly of him. \"I think he will be the right fit,\" said Greenway. In its job posting, the city council is offering a salary of between 80,000 and 90,000 plus benefits for the city manager position"}
{"Id":"1101243117731","Title":"Grandview rodeo moves to the PRCA","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"4/6/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"GRANDVIEW - Several years ago when the Alderwood Valley Junior Fair in Grandview was looking for a way to boost attendance, a new idea was brought forward to coordinate a rodeo that would take place during the annual summertime event. The idea was approved, and now three years later, the Alderwood Valley Fair and Rodeo is planning on taking its rodeo up another notch. This year the Alderwood Valley Fair and Rodeo will host a Professional Rodeo Cowboy Assocation (PRCA) sanctioned rodeo event. According to Sharon Fisher, who helps organize the annual event, when the idea to incorporate a rodeo into the fair was first brought up by Glenn Herriman of the Northern Cross Rodeo Company, it was with the idea that after a few years of holding a successful rodeo that the Grandview event could move up from being a ProWest Rodeo Association event to being sanctioned by the PRCA. Fisher said Herriman, who has always provided stock for the local rodeo, had been wanting to move up to providing stock for PRCA sanctioned events and had said if the Grandview rodeo was successful he would bring the event up to PRCA with him. \"He was really anxious for us to go up with him,\" Fisher said. She explained that after the rodeo saw success for three years in a row, Herriman felt the time was right to apply to the PRCA. Fisher said first Herriman went through the process of getting approved to provide stock to PRCA rodeos. Once that happened he approached the PRCA about putting together a new six-rodeo series, which would include the Grandview event. Fisher said the next step was for the Alderwood Valley Fair and Rodeo event to be approved by the PRCA. She explained that this included filling out some paperwork and showing that the rodeo had been successful in the past. Fisher said being a PRCA sanctioned event in the Coeur d'Alene Casino Championship Series will mean a larger cost to put the rodeo on, but will also mean there will be more opportunities for corporate sponsorship. According to Fisher, it will cost approximately 6,000 more to put on a PRCA rodeo than it has to put on a ProWest rodeo. She explained that the added cost comes from needing larger purses for the cowboys and having to pay the rodeo judges more money, as well as needing to have official rodeo bullfighters on staff instead of rodeo clowns. Fisher said the six rodeos that make up the new circuit are working together with the Coeur d'Alene Casino to gain more corporate sponsors. She said people representing the different events, which take place in Brewster, Tekoa, St. Mary's, Idaho and Libby, Mont., as well as Grandview, have been meeting monthly in Coeur d'Alene to discuss everything from sponsorships to the promotion of the series. Fisher said she is hoping that moving to the PRCA will also help bolster participation in the rodeo. She explained that in years past the Grandview event has been scheduled between two PRCA rodeos, one in Omak and one in Hermiston. She credits this to the reason the local event has been so successful. She said a lot of PRCA cowboys would take part in the Grandview rodeo between the other two events, regardless of the fact that they couldn't earn PRCA points. Fisher is hopeful that with the Grandview rodeo now being a PRCA event that more PRCA cowboys will take advantage of the scheduling and add the Alderwood Valley Fair and Rodeo to their schedule, especially now that the points they earn there will go toward both the series championship, scheduled to be held at the Coeur d'Alene Casino Sept. 24-26, and to nationals, which take place in December in Las Vegas. Last year the Grandview Rodeo had more than 300 participants, and Fisher is hoping to see that number grow this year. She said she has been happy with the success the rodeo has seen over the years. \"I think it has helped the fair survive,\" Fisher said"}
{"Id":"1101243118231","Title":"Alderwood area lawmakers indicate 2004 session a bust","Author":"Bob Story","Time":"4/5/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Taxpayers may not have got their money's worth with the recently concluded 2004 legislative session in Olympia. That was the message hinted at late last week by three Alderwood area lawmakers-Sen. Jim Honeyford and Representatives Dan Newhouse and Bruce Chandler. All three Republicans said the lack of action in Olympia this year came at a time when changes were needed. Specifically, the three Lower Alderwood Valley legislators are not pleased that issues such as reforming the state's Labor & Industries Department stalled, or that lawmakers couldn't even get a bill designed to curb the state's escalating minimum wage to the floor for a vote. The three Alderwood area elected officials also noted that little was done in clearing up questions on water relinquishment and instream flows. Even less was accomplished, said the three, in addressing tort reform. So, how did the state's lawmakers decide to deal with all these burning issues? Simply put, said the three, they were all placed on side burners and earmarked to be researched. \"You might say this was a session where no study was left behind,\" smirked Chandler, who operates a fruit orchard near Granger when he isn't serving his constituents in Olympia. \"There was no will to act,\" he continued. The lack of action by their peers \"...reflects the frustration we had over the session,\" Chandler said, with both Newhouse and Honeyford nodding in agreement. Next year, to avoid a repeat of the 2004 session, the three said it is imperative that Gov. Gary Locke's replacement be a Republican. Locke, a two-term Democrat, has already announced that he will not seek a third term as governor. \"The key part of the whole picture is having a Republican governor in there,\" Newhouse stressed. The freshman legislator, a hop grower who farms just to the south of Alderwood, said the GOP will throw its support behind Dino Rossi of Issaquah. Rossi, whom Honeyford said is a strong ag supporter, resigned from the state Senate this past December so he could fully commit to campaigning for Locke's position. Chandler calls Rossi \"...a stellar candidate.\" The three Alderwood area politicians also note that the GOP has identified 12 key races for the state House this year. Democrats enjoyed a six-seat advantage in the House this past session. Both, Newhouse and Chandler will be seeking to retain their House Republican seats this fall. Honeyford, a retired educator, is not up for re-election to the Republican controlled state Senate this coming November. In terms of what lawmakers did get accomplished in 2004, the three Alderwood area legislators wincingly acknowledge that a compromise was hammered out on the supplemental budget. The budget that was sent to Locke came out of the Senate, but none of the three local lawmakers are all that thrilled that the budget includes only 305 million in reserves. Newhouse, who said crafting a new two-year budget will be a top priority next year, is among many who are concerned that the state will have to deal with a general budget deficit in 2005. Another area of spending that worries Newhouse, Chandler and Honeyford is the budget of the Department of Labor & Industries. They said it is almost a foregone conclusion that in 2005 employers will face another double-digit increase in the premiums they pay in to L&I. The entire structure of L&I needs overhauling, say the three. \"Internal changes would fix 75 percent of the problems,\" said Honeyford. He cites the need for an annual auditing procedure, and such a bill cleared the Senate this year. Unfortunately, he said, the bill died in the House's Commerce and Labor Committee. Honeyford, too, sponsored a bill that addressed two recent state Supreme Court cases that have increased L&I benefit costs, in essence providing administrative efficiencies. Under terms of the measure, wages would be calculated by using the highest four consecutive quarters in the last two years. Fringe benefits would not be included in the calculation of wages, and compensation would be paid for lost wages at 65.5 percent of a worker's wage. The Senate passed Honeyford's bill, but like the audit measure, it died in the House Commercial & Labor Committee. Three other L&I reform bills that Honeyford sponsored-stopping the misuse of worker and employer premiums, requiring timely reports for on-the-job injuries and giving self-insurers more authority over their claims-all passed the Senate this year, but all were killed by the House Commercial & Labor Committee. \"Major reforms didn't occur,\" Honeyford said. \"There was no real opportunity,\" he added, referring to the House's actions to kill his bills in committee. Chandler calls the Dept. of L&I \"dysfunctional.\" He said claims are handled too slowly, the process is expensive and the state agency doesn't serve either employers or employees adequately. Honeyford is just as frustrated with the inaction taken on water issues that came before legislators. He blames Locke for doing nothing to push the issue to the forefront. He also said too much compromise was needed to get anything accomplished, \"...and then, not even a study was approved on relinquishment,\" Honeyford said. The three Alderwood area lawmakers are also deeply disappointed that nothing was done to slow down the state's escalating minimum wage. Currently, Washington state has the highest minimum wage in the nation, at 7.16 an hour. Again, the House couldn't get a bill dealing with the issue to the floor for a vote. \"I think it will be addressed eventually,\" said Chandler, \"The question is, how many jobs will be lost before it is.\" Newhouse vowed the minimum wage issue will be a top priority come next session. Also high on the three local legislator's list of priorities is tort reform. Exorbitant insurance premiums and large monetary awards by juries and judges are bankrupting the medical industry, they say. Newhouse and Chandler said the goal is to reign in the skyrocketing premiums and limit the large settlements. \"If we don't, we won't have many physicians left practicing here in the state,\" said Newhouse"}
{"Id":"1101243118512","Title":"Forum","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"4/2/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"1-Column DSN gets my vote City council members will come and go but the Alderwood Daily News will last forever. It's too bad that petty, partisan and personal attitudes prevail among a couple of our so-called representatives that we elected to be our voice. It's not about them; it's about all of us. If they think their vote is more powerful than ours as they pursue a personal and not so hidden agenda, let's show them that our votes count, too, as we vote them out of office. I am not that naive that I believe everything I read or watch on TV, but in my dealings with the DSN and in my 15 years of professional experience as a TV news journalist, my bias, yes, I said bias, is to side with the fourth estate. Let the politicians cry and whine about their unfair treatment in the newspaper. It will be duly noted, printed and published. If nothing else, it shows them for who they really are, spoiled brats who think the position they hold gives them the right to push their own personal agendas, mistakenly believing their personal vote can be used to put the local newspaper in its place or whatever happens to be the flavor of the day. In an era where small town newspapers are struggling to survive, we need to keep and support ours, if not for the perspective it allows, then for the sense that it reflects, affirms and promotes the self-esteem of our community. I have not seen one good reason for turning down the DSN bid for legal advertising. But the decision certainly fits with recent newspaper accounts of council meetings. According to public record, over the past few months city council meetings have been an embarrassing display of petty arguments, childish accusations against one another and the furthering of personal agendas at the expense of what's best for our community. My question is, who will remember these clowns and their small town shenanigans in an historical sense? The answer: practically no one. Historically, our newspaper has the reputation, the staying power and the commitment to this community and it will prevail, legal ads or not. The DSN gets my vote (by way of my subscription), if for nothing else, so we can keep an eye on these people who claim they have our best interests at heart. /s/ Joe Meersman, Alderwood Health night support thanks Thursday, March 11, Chief Kamiakin and Outlook elementary schools held our annual PE, health and fitness family night. The event was a huge success. There are many people who were responsible for the success of this evening. First, we need to thank Dr. Carol Clarke, Adelia Goedhart and Cathy Mears. Without their support, direction and encouragement we would have been lost. Thanks also goes to the school nurses and the Farm Workers Clinic, who gave numerous vaccinations; Angela Gonzalez, Rene Morris, Jean Wolters, Ruben Carrera, Sue Covel, Stu Gates, Dave Van Dyke, Kelly Zakahi, Shirley Pedraza, Gayle Brewer, Marge Van Tress, Kathy Cullen, Jean Killian, Patty Griffith, Gail Boose, Chet Bridger, Mrs. Rasmussen's class, the Police Explorers and Julie Kaplicky, the many teachers and parents who volunteered their time to supervise, and all of the community resource people who came with information, they all did excellent jobs. A special thanks to Leslie Dalley and the Washington Reading Corps members who gave away more than 200 books. Also, thanks goes to all of the parents and students who were there that evening. You have shown a great deal of care and concern about your children's well being. We thank you all and we appreciate the time and effort you put in to make a project of this size a success. You have all shown that the health and fitness of students in the Alderwood School District is important. Special thanks to the Yakima Herald Republic, radio station KDNA and the Alderwood Daily News for their media coverage. /s/ Deana Dalton and Mark Moore DSN coverage We have just discovered your newspaper's merits when you covered the Grandview Chamber of Commerce banquet and the introduction of the winners of Dollars for Scholars. Your coverage, complete with high quality pictures, speaks volumes for your journalism, printing equipment and professionalism. /s/ Jack E. Wyant, Grandview Plague? I read with great interest the personal column by Tim Graff (March 31) and I wanted to immediately respond. Tim is absolutely right when he states that the support that the Alderwood Daily News has given to the Veterans Memorial in Alderwood has been \"instrumental in its success and still is to this day.\" There have been few who have given to the memorial project as have the staff at the Alderwood Daily News. From the very beginning Tom Lanctot fully endorsed this project and gave us his full support. And everyone I have ever spoken to at the paper Tim Graff, Bob Story and Jamie Smart to mention just a few, have also given us their full support. There is no doubt in my mind that without the help of the Alderwood Daily News, the War Veterans Memorial would never have been built. Every veteran in this community is indebted to this newspaper, and I encourage them to express how much they appreciate what the paper has done to make this memorial a reality. What the paper has done is truly a big deal, and I would totally disagree with any who feel that the newspaper is a plague on this community. In the real world, big people are always able to set aside their personal differences and work for the good of the community. This is sometimes difficult...that I realize. But we are all called upon to serve a cause greater than ourselves. And how we do that may be the greatest contribution that we can give to any cause and the greatest example that we can show to the youth of our community, who are watching us. It is certainly one of the greatest contributions that we will make to our own personal growth as a human being. It is not easy to act impartially when one has personal feelings that are tugging on them. But when one can overcome those feelings and do what is right, then big things happen in this world. I say that not because I am always able to do that, but because when I am able...I have been greatly surprised at what can be accomplished and how enjoyable the task can become. /s/ Greg Schlieve, Alderwood War Veterans Memorial chairman E-mail attack unprofessional Since the reading of John Torch' e-mail at the council meeting of March 22, I have spoken to people throughout the community about how the contents of his e-mail have made people irate, disturbed and upset that a city councilman would have a \"personal agenda\" against certain businesses or agencies within the community. His attacks towards the Alderwood Daily News and the Chamber of Commerce are, in my eyes, totally unprofessional and are actions that cause a division between the city council and other agencies, instead of unity to work towards the same goals such as promoting current and future business growth. I strongly urge residents and business owners within our community to attend the weekly council meetings to voice your concerns, either for or against. After all, this is America and as Americans we have a constitutional right as citizens to \"freedom of speech.\" The city council are people that we, as citizens, have voted into office because we have the faith in them to generate ordinances that will promote growth in our community and make our community a safe and prosperous place to live. If the members of the city council do things that cause division, disruption and other things that we, the community, feel are not best for the city, then there are actions that can be taken to relieve these council persons of their duties. I hope it doesn't come to that point. Finally, when I go before the city council I do it as a citizen who has lived here for 44 years, not as a city firefighter. See you at the next council meeting. /s/ Bob Johnson, Alderwood"}
{"Id":"1101243137918","Title":"G'view aquatic center back on drawing board","Author":"Melissa Browning","Time":"4/2/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"GRANDVIEW - The times are changing and the Grandview Parks and Recreation Service Area Board is taking a fresh look at building an aquatic center in the community. The board met Thursday night in the Grandview City Council chamber room to discuss moving forward with a campaign to build a new multi-faceted pool facility. With the outdated and deteriorating pool facility in Grandview, Parks and Recreation Director Mike Carpenter explained that the city began looking at building a new pool in the late 1990s. The Grandview Park and Recreation Service Area Board revisited the original plan as they discussed the possibility of going to the voters with a vote in favor of a new pool. Looking at pools in Milton Freewater, Pendleton and Moses Lake, Carpenter said a plan was developed in the late 1990s for a new state of the art aquatic center that includes slides, a lap pool section for swim team and a zero depth portion of the pool. According to Carpenter, studies have shown that the lap pools similar to the current city pool do not make money, but zero depth pools do. The pool at the proposed aquatic center would be both. A zero depth pool, Carpenter said, is a shallower pool which is similar to walking in the ocean. He said it is a pool that draws young mothers, as well kids wanting to cool off in the water. The original pool design also had water features that spray and spit water for kids to play in, said Carpenter. It also had a multi-purpose room, a concessions stand and an indoor lap pool that could potentially be open year-round. \"Based on what we've seen, we like the aquatic center idea,\" said Dave Copeland, chairman of the Parks and Recreation Service Area Board. But, Grandview resident Jack Mariotti questioned whether the city should push for such a large facility. \"This is really a first class outfit. I can see this going up in Richland, but not working here,\" he said. He said the city could just as easily do as Naches did and build a nice, but smaller pool that would serve the community. He said he feels an aquatic center in Grandview, a town of nearly 9,000 people, wouldn't attract the numbers the Parks and Recreation Service Area Board is hoping for. According to Grandview City Manager Jim Sewell, there are 54,000 people living within 16 miles of Grandview and 42,000 within eight miles of the community. Copeland said Grandview needs to build a facility that keeps people there for the day and wanting to go back the next day. The aquatic center plan that was developed for Grandview by Susan Black of TSE, an architectural firm that has built numerous pools around the state, has been laid out to fit in Euclid Park, located at the corner of Euclid and West Second streets. The original project has an estimated value of 5.9 million. After an intensive campaign the aquatic center was turned down with a vote of 1,421 people voting against the facility and 1,377 voting in favor. A super-majority, or 60 percent of the voters, had to vote in favor of the pool for the project to pass. According to Copeland, on 326 of the ballots voters didn't vote either way. Voters affected by the vote are those living within the Grandview School District, with the exception of the few who live in Benton County. Conditions weren't favorable at the time, according to Copeland, who listed processing plants closing and declining agricultural conditions as part of the reason the aquatic center was put on hold until now. One major change that makes the climate more favorable is the addition of the Wal-Mart distribution center, which added about 30 million in assessed value to the city. \"There has been a huge infusion into the tax base,\" said Sewell. There has been a 40 cent per 1,000 of assessed value reduction from schools taxes with even more expected next year. The utility tax is expected to drop next year and with more construction on the horizon Sewell said the addition of 100 new homes over the next five years could easily increase assessed value in the city by 10 million. Grandview Mayor Mike Bren, who attended Thursday's meeting, said that the pool could easily come in at the same time the taxes are reduced, making it so residents see no significant difference in their taxes. He said pool proponents should encourage votes for the pool by asking voters to keep their taxes the same and in return would get an aquatic center. \"What's wrong with breaking even, but having a new pool in town?,\" asked Bren. Alderwood County Commissioner and Grandview resident John Posse said he feels like the city should push forward and ask voters to support the aquatic center. \"If you want to build a community, you have to go for it,\" said Posse. \"I don't think we should stop with an aquatic center. There are other quality of life issues that need to be addressed. We can't just sit on our hands.\" Another benefit to building a new pool is that currently the city is subsidizing the pool to the tune of 55,000 a year, said Sewell. In Milton Freewater, the city subsidizes the pool for 27,000 and Moses Lake is making money, he said. \"That's a savings to taxpayers,\" Sewell said. He added that stepping out, taking a chance and building facilities like an aquatic center increases the likelihood that new businesses will locate in a community. The next step is to get an updated cost estimate for the aquatic center. Members of the Grandview Parks and Recreation Service Area Board said they were open to potentially down-sizing the project if needed, but the current plan gives them someplace to start. \"We don't see ourselves as a commercial hub,\" said Bren, \"We see ourselves as a good place to live.\" He added that building a pool for the next three generations would be a way to improve the quality of life for Grandview residents. Also on the Grandview Parks and Recreation Service Area Board are Justin Christensen and Dan Churchill"}
{"Id":"1101243138543","Title":"New home approved for Eighth Street","Author":"Melissa Browning","Time":"4/1/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"The Alderwood Board of Adjustment Wednesday night approved the construction of a new home on the corner of Eighth Street and Grant Avenue. The stick-built house will be constructed on a vacant lot that is located within the city's B-3, retail core zone. According to Interim City Manager Bruce Rinz, using the lot for the construction of a home fits into the neighborhood's use, which is residential. Rinz said at the Alderwood Planning Commission level there is talk of changing the B-3 zone to allow residential housing, but as of now a conditional use permit is required in the zoning. In the staff report prepared by Rinz, he said expansion of the commercial core into the neighborhood where the home will be located is \"doubtful.\" Following staff recommendations, the Board of Adjustment members unanimously voted to approve the construction of the single-family residence. As part of the permit, applicant Thomas Flood will have to provide a site plan prior to the start of construction. He will also be required to complete landscaping and property improvements, including replacing the existing sidewalk along Grant Avenue. New curb and gutter will be required of Flood, as will a road patch from the street to the curb and gutter, said Rinz. The home will also be required to comply with R-1 zoning setbacks for a corner lot, which is 20-feet from the front yard facing Grant Avenue and Eighth Street. Off-street parking, building height and building code requirements must also be met. . Melissa Browning can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or e-mail mbrowning@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101243138731","Title":"Board of Adjustment grants variance for farm animals","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"4/1/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"The Alderwood Board of Adjustment granted Eric and Georgia Porter permission Wednesday night to house livestock on pasture located at 626 W. Edison Avenue. The conditional use permit was granted for the property, which is located within an R-2, medium density residential zone. According to Interim City Manager Bruce Rinz, livestock are allowed as a conditional use in an R-2 zone. Rinz said livestock have been allowed to graze the acre parcel in the past on a short-term basis, but the new decision will allow animals to graze there full-time. Property surrounding the Porter's land is currently pasture. The field is piped with water from a well, so water will be available for the animals, said Eric Porter. The Porters applied for the conditional use permit so they can keep their children's horses, cows and small farm animals they show in livestock shows and fairs close to home. In their application, the Porters said they plan to bring in hay and grain for the care and upkeep of the animals when necessary. The conditional use permit was approved on a permanent basis as long as the applicant is living at the address. . Melissa Browning can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or e-mail mbrowning@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101243139934","Title":"Scotties take advantage of 10 Mabton miscues","Author":"Bob Story","Time":"3/30/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"COWICHE - Ten errors cost the Mabton High School baseball team yesterday. The only good thing about all the Viking miscues Monday afternoon is that they came during a non-league game. Playing at Cowiche, Class 1A Highland defeated the Class B Vikings, 12-2. The non-league contest was stopped after the fifth inning because of the 10-run rule. Mabton got to the Scotties' starting pitcher, Nelson, early. In the top of the first, the Vikes' Ray Elizondo opened the game by slapping a double. A walk to James Magana and a bloop single by Javier Galvan loaded the bases. Alex Balli then lofted a fly ball to center, scoring Elizondo on the sac fly. Mabton reloaded the bases when Marcos Zepeda singled sharply, but Highland got out of the inning cheaply when Nelson fanned a batter and then induced the last out of the inning with a groundout. The Scotties all but ended the game in the bottom half of the first, pushing eight runs across the plate. Balli, the starting pitcher for Mabton, was touched for three hits in the opening frame. He also gave up two walks. Balli could have survived that, but three errors on the part of his teammates ended up doing him in. He was lifted from the mound without a single out being recorded. Zepeda, pitching in relief, finally got the Vikes out of the inning. Zepeda only allowed one more run until turning the pitching chores over to Elizondo in the fifth inning. \"Marcos (Zepeda) kept us right in there,\" said Mabton Coach Kerry Snodgrass. \"The story yesterday wasn't pitching,\" Snodgrass continued. \"We didn't field the ball. We just can't make these kinds of errors and expect to get away with it.\" Mabton accounted for its second run of the game in the top of the third. Balli singled, eventually scoring on an RBI single by Zepeda, who had the lone multi-hit performance of the day for the Vikes, going 2-for-2. . Bob Story,can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or e-mail him at bstory@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101243140168","Title":"State rejects Mabton's funding request for new well","Author":"Jamie Smart","Time":"3/29/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"MABTON - Losing its bid to receive a state community development block grant has not deterred the Mabton City Council from seeking other funding sources for a much needed new city well. The city leaders, who had sought a state community block grant to help with the estimated 1.2 million cost of punching a new well recently learned their application was rejected. \"We're not sure why our application was rejected by the state, but we are in need of an additional water source,\" said Mabton Mayor David Conradt. He said the city's aging water system had given the city a number of headaches the past several years. The city hopes to drill a new well to meet current water needs, as well as future needs in the tiny community. \"We are now seeking other funding sources,\" he said. Last week, the Mabton City Council approved spending 3,600 to fund an engineer's study of the city's aquifers, which is required by the Alderwood County Water Conservation Board. The professional study and the approval of the county conservation board are both needed before the city can apply for U.S. Department of Agriculture funding, Conradt explained. He said the study is the first step in seeking a USDA rural development grant/loan package. The USDA funding will require the city to pay 25 percent of the costs putting in the new well, according to Ildia Jackson, Mabton city administrator. The USDA provides funding in 75 percent grant/25 percent loan packages, she explained. Jackson said the city may seek extra funding from the state's public works grants. The rejection of the city's block grant application is expected to delay the city water project, by at least six months"}
{"Id":"1101243160012","Title":"Obituaries","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"3/29/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"EUGENE PATRICK CHARVET JR EUGENE PATRICK CHARVET JR. Eugene Patrick Charvet Jr., 75, of Grandview went to be with his Lord and Savior Thursday, March 25, 2004, from Yakima Regional Hospital. Eugene was born Jan. 5, 1929 at the family home, the son of Edna May (Carlson) and Eugene Patrick Charvet. Eugene received his grade school education from Sacred Heart School in Seattle, middle school from Brisco School in Kent, and secondary school from O Day High School in Seattle, receiving a degree in theology and music from St. Martin s College in Olympia/Lacey, in three years. Eugene served for two years in the U.S. Army, receiving his basic training at Fort Ord, Calif., then was stationed and served at Los Alamos, New Mexico. Eugene spent seven years at the Trappist Monastery Guadalupe at Lafayette, Ore. He was sent home by the Abbot of the Trappist to care for his parents and brother, Tommy. He took his assignment to heart and cared for his family very well and faithfully. Eugene became a strong part of the Fabric of the Blessed Sacrament Parish of Grandview, a part of the establishment To Say! He attended daily Mass, taught CCD, baptish, confirmation and marriage preparation classes, along with helping with daily Mass. Eugene was like a sacristan, performing many duties at different times, like typing the church bulletin, playing organ, and piano, directing and singing in the choir. He was on the Bishops Religious Education Council and was selected to be the representative from the Yakima Diocese to attend the religious convention in Philadelphia in 1972. Eugene was a member of the Knights of Columbus and went through all the chairs, serving as Grand Knight and also served as financial secretary for many years. He was a life member of the Fourth Degree Honor Guard and Fourth Degree Knights of Columbus. He became a Eucharistic minister distributing communion, reading scriptures and giving faith and hope to the sick and shut-ins. He played the piano for the residents in most of the nursing homes in the Lower Valley. On Sunday Eugene spent time ministering at the Alderwood County jail. Eugene was recognized at the Yakima Diocese Fifty-Year Celebration for his self-selected duties at the parish, jail, nursing homes, shut-ins and much more. Eugene was very helpful to all the priests that served at the Blessed Sacrament Catholic Church, preparing for daily Mass and anything that was needed. Monsignor McDonnell was a very special friend to Eugene. Eugene also headed up the Legion of Mary. He made many rosaries, said the rosary and meditated over each one before it was given with love. He was deeply devoted to Mary and prayed the Rosary and the Divine Office daily. Eugene was a bookkeeper for Top Side Canning Company and R. H. Jones. He farmed hops for a period of time and kept books for the family farm. Eugene loved sharing his time and talent of music with the sick and those in need. No one, but the Lord, will know how many lives Eugene touched in so many ways. Eugene is survived by one sister, Alice Waddle of Grandview; two brothers, Martin (Frank) Charvet of Grandview and Ernest Charvet and wife, Laura, of Mabton; one special aunt, Alice Carlson of Grandview; one brother-in-law, Tom Healy of Seattle; one sister-in-law, Anna May Charvet of Mabton; 27 nieces and nephews; and numerous great nieces and nephews. He was preceded in death by his parents; one sister, Josie Healy; three brothers, Richard and wife, Rosella, Tommy and Jerry; one sister-in-law, Donna Charvet; one brother-in-law, George Waddle; and five nephews. Viewing and visitation will be held Monday, March 29, 2004, from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. at Jones Funeral Home, Grandview. Recitation of the Holy Rosary will be held at 7 p.m. at Blessed Sacrament Catholic Church, Grandview. Mass of Christian burial will be held Tuesday, March 30, 2004, at 11 a.m. at Blessed Sacrament Catholic Church, Grandview, with burial to follow at Mabton Cemetery, under the direction of Jones Funeral Home. Those wishing to honor his memory may contribute to the Seminary Fund at the Diocese of Yakima at 5301-A Tieton Dr., Yakima, WA 98908. MYRTIE VIRGINIA SHAW Myrtie Virginia Shaw, 70, of Alderwood went to be in the arms of her Savior Friday, March 26, 2004, from her home. Myrtie was born Nov. 2, 1933 in Celina, Tenn., the daughter of Hattie McAppen and Clurie Albert Strong. Myrtie received her education in Tennessee. In 1953 she married Leonard Shaw in Indiana. Following their marriage they moved to Kentucky, then back to Indiana in 1965. Her husband, Leonard, died in 1974. She later moved to Flordia in 1985 before settling in Alderwood in 1989. Myrtie enjoyed yard sales, her canine companion, Little Bit, gardening, flowers and spending time with her grandchildren and great-grandchildren. Myrtie is survived by two daughters, JoAnn Pierce of Portland, Ore. and Cathy Shaw of Alderwood; two sons, James Lee Swails of Indiana and Bill Swails and wife, Carol, of Grandview; 14 grandchildren and numerous great-grandchildren; and one brother, Willard Strong of Kentucky. She is also survived by her significant other, Steven Bueno of Alderwood. She was preceded in death by her parents; one daughter, Patricia Shaw; one grandson, Robert Michael Swails; one great-grandson, Jose Antonio Munoz Jr.; three brothers and two sisters. Viewing and visitation were held Sunday, March 28, 2004, from 4 to 8 p.m. at Jones Funeral Home, Alderwood and Monday, March 29, 2004, from 9 a.m. until time of funeral at 2 p.m. at Jones Funeral Home, Alderwood. Burial was in Lower Valley Memorial Gardens, Alderwood"}
{"Id":"1101243160247","Title":"Candidate for Patty Murray's seat addresses Alderwood GOP club","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"3/26/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"There are several issues that Dr. Reed Davis, a candidate running for the U.S. Senate seat currently filled by Democrat Patty Murray, feels very strongly about. This morning (Friday), during a quick stop over in Alderwood, Davis was given a chance to talk about the different issues that make up his campaign. The guest speaker at the Alderwood Republican Club meeting, Davis said he feels spending is the key issue during this election season. \"This Congress is the most expense Congress next to LBJ's,\" Davis said, noting that in the past three years discretionary spending has increased 25 to 30 percent. \"I'm a deficit hawk,\" he said. Davis said he believes all of the spending Congress is doing will ultimately mean passing a huge debt on to the nation's children and grandchildren. Davis said he also feels that the spending that has been going on is affecting the Social Security system. \"Social Security is going broke,\" he said. \"We need to fix Social Security, but we can't until Congress quits spending.\" According to Davis, one way to curb the spending he feels is happening is for voters to elect \"...congressmen and senators who are committed to fiscal responsibility.\" When it comes to Social Security reform, Davis said he supports a plan being proposed that would allow younger workers to put their Social Security taxes in a personal investment account. Davis said another important issue is the marriage amendment recently proposed by President George Bush. \"I support the marriage amendment,\" Davis said. \"I think most Americans believe a strong family is the foundation of everything in American society.\" Davis added that one of the problems with civil unions of any kind is that they tend to end in separation at two to three times the rate of marriages. He said these separations can have a devastating effect on children. Davis is running against Rep. George Nethercutt for the Republican nomination to run for the U.S. Senate currently held by Murray. Davis, who lives in Maple Valley, is an associate professor at Seattle Pacific University, where he teaches classes on political science. Davis said he decided to run for the senate seat because he is alarmed by the spending that is going on in Congress today. He said having taught classes on federal budgeting and publishing both a book and different articles on public policy, as well as having served as the chair of the King County Republican Party for eight years, he feels he is ready to take on a race for the senate. \"I think Republicans will be grateful to have a choice in this primary,\" Davis said. \"I think it's time to get someone in there with credibility when it comes to fiscal responsibility"}
{"Id":"1101243160465","Title":"Religious Reflections","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"3/26/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"As I drive through this valley with its rows and rows of grapevines, the penitent flavor of the Lenten season is almost overpowering. For me, the misshapen forms of the vines bear a startling likeness to Jesus on the cross, complete with the crown of thorns. Daily I'm reminded of Christ's sacrifice for us, particularly with the ever-present buzz about the Passion of Christ. Which makes me wonder how I can ever be worthy of such great love. No matter how sincerely we repent of our lackluster faith or our outright rebellion against God, we fall short again and again. But the other side of Lent is also represented in this verdant valley. The new life symbolized by Jesus' resurrection is just starting to be visible in the blooming apricot trees dotting the patchwork of orchards. Soon the cherry trees will follow (late freezes notwithstanding), with the apples and peaches not far behind. We can see and touch these signs that the earth is renewed each year and be reminded that Christ continually renews us. He doesn't leave us like abandoned prunings from the trees, but moves in us to bring new potential, new buds, new fruit in season. The \"already\" and \"not-yet\" of the kingdom of God on earth is apparent in the microcosm of our journey through Lent, in which we know all along the resurrection is just ahead. And so our penitence and resolve to turn toward God is tinged with a certain hope that we have already been redeemed. That's a life perspective that can help us cope with the terrible news of car bombings, hungry children, unemployment and failing health. When we are confronted with our own human failings and the selfish decisions of others that bring about many of these situations, we can take heart in the knowledge that there is ultimate redemption for our sins. The mess we've created won't last forever. That's the good news of Jesus Christ that is echoed over and over in the cycle of the seasons! - Pastor Katie Haney of the Alderwood Presbyterian Church"}
{"Id":"1101243160715","Title":"Alderwood City Council approves liquor license renewals","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"3/25/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"The Alderwood City Council approved a set of liquor license renewal requests at this past Monday night's meeting. The liquor license renewals were part of the Council consent agenda. Councilman John Torch was the lone vote against approval of the consent agenda. Torch didn't make his reasons known for his objection. Mayor Rex Luthor removed a consent agenda item concerning a list of payment vouchers in the amount of 415,747. Luthor asked the Council to remove the item because there was only a partial list of vouchers available to Council of the payments actually made. The item will be back before Council at the April 5 meeting. Also on the consent agenda was the minutes of the March 15 meeting. Liquor license renewals were approved for the following establishments: China Grove, 325 Alderwood Valley Highway; Minit Mart and Smoke Shop, 301 South 13th Street South; Park-N-Pak, 905 Lincoln Avenue; Washington Hills Cellars, 111 East Lincoln Avenue #B; El Mejor Taquetitos, 544 South Sixth Street; Alderwood Chevron, 1805 South First Street"}
{"Id":"1101243160965","Title":"New bill gives citizens leverage for challenging state agency rules","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"3/25/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Citizens affected unfairly by state agency rules and regulations will have an easier time challenging those rules, thanks to a new law ushered in by state Rep. Jan a Holmquist, R-Moses Lake. The governor signed House Bill 2598 Monday, which will allow citizens to file suit against state agencies in one of four counties throughout Washington. Until now, state law required all such legal challenges against the state to be filed in Thurston County. The new bill will allow citizens to file cases against the state in Yakima, Spokane, Whatcom and Thurston counties, depending on where they reside. \"State agencies have really enjoyed a home-court advantage,\" Holmquist said. \"This move to open up new venues to challenge agency rules will take many cases out of Olympia and into other jurisdictions, where there may be a greater understanding of the plight of the private sector and less bias in favor of state government.\" According to Holmquist, this bill will help ensure the voices of families, property owners and small business owners are given due consideration when state agencies draft regulations, knowing they may have to defend them in courts throughout Washington. \"If nothing else, it will allow citizens to have their grievances heard closer to home,\" she said. John Rothlin, public information officer with House Republican Media Services, explained that under the old law when an agency adopts a new rule, the only way that rule can be challenged is for a person to file a suit in Thurston County. Holmquist's bill opens those filing locations up to include three other counties across the state. Rothlin said agencies often draft new policies and rules ranging from the Shoreline Rule to the ergonomics rules, which were repealed by voters last fall. The governor vetoed House Bill 1530, a similar measure co-sponsored by Holmquist and approved by the legislature last year. The bill would have allowed legal challenges in five counties in Washington. Holmquist and other supporters of the proposal worked out a compromise with the governor, opening venue options to four counties as a pilot project through June 2008. \"This is what the governor has agreed to for now, but my goal is to make this a permanent option and expand it to all counties,\" said Holmquist. \"Our objective is to raise the level of accountability in state agency rule making, and if the governor's administration is using its rule-making authority in a fair and responsible manner, then the agencies should not be worried about making it a little more convenient for citizens to challenge those rules.\" HB 2598 takes effect 90 days from the end of the 2004 session, which adjourned March 11"}
{"Id":"1101243161481","Title":"Alderwood area legislators review work in Olympia","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"3/24/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"Sixty days may seem like a long time to some people, but ask local legislators and you'll get an entirely different answer. Wednesday morning, Rep. Dan Newhouse, Rep. Bruce Chandler and Sen. Jim Honeyford talked to members of the Alderwood Daybreak Rotary Club about just how much they were able to accomplish during the last 60-day legislative session. \"I never realized in a short session, how much work [there] was,\" Honeyford said. Newhouse said going into the last session, which is considered short compared to last year's budget session, there were several issues that had to be tackled, including writing the supplemental budget and putting together the state's transportation budget. Chandler explained that the state's supplemental budget makes up approximately 25 percent of the two-year budget cycle. He said one of the good things that came with this year's supplemental budget was that it did not require a tax increase. However, Chandler said the supplemental budget does have several drawbacks, including that it spends more money than will be coming in. He said this will make budgeting next year more difficult. Chandler explained that not only will budgeting next year be more difficult due to the amount of money being spent in the supplemental budget, but also due to several initiatives that will take effect next year, as well as some collective bargaining that has yet to be done. Chandler said next year two initiatives dealing with education will come back into play, initiatives 728 and 732, one of which gives teachers across the state a cost of living increase. As for collective bargaining, Chandler said this will be the last duty of Gov. Locke's administration and it could possibly have a dramatic effect on next year's budget. When the initiatives and collective bargaining are grouped together, Chandler said the two issues could mean as much as a 15 percent increase in next year's budget. \"Which is pretty significant,\" Chandler said. There were other issues state legislators also took on during the session, including several bills that came in response to the discovery of a dairy heifer infected with Mad Cow disease. \"I think we can feel good that the legislature could respond in such a timely matter,\" Newhouse said, noting that six pieces of legislation were passed dealing with the issue. He said the legislation dealt with everything from the transportation of downer cows to cattle identification. An issue that has faced the legislature for some time also saw some action during the short session. Newhouse said legislation that would make it possible for school districts to pass levy and bond issues with a simply majority is something that has been on the table for years. This year half of that legislation made it through the House before it was killed in the Senate. That piece of legislation would have made it possible for school districts to pass levies with a simple majority, instead of the super majority that is currently needed. A piece of education legislation that did pass through both the House and Senate and was recently signed by Gov. Gary Locke dealt with charter schools. Newhouse explained that the piece of legislation allows for the creation of 45 charter schools across the state over the next six years. At a more local level, Honeyford said several things happened during the session that will help the local agriculture industry. He said more money was put into the budget to help the asparagus industry mechanize their warehouses, as well as to conduct research on the mechanization of the hop industry. Honeyford said the study would look at mechanizing the process of taking the vines off the trucks and bringing them into the warehouses for production"}
{"Id":"1101243161950","Title":"City says no (again) to Alderwood Daily News' bid","Author":"John Panni","Time":"3/23/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"Alderwood City Councilman John Torch started the night off defending his position for voting to reject the lone bid submitted to the city last week for publishing the city's legal notices. But by the time everything was said and done, there was some doubt left about what the one-term councilman was truly saying. Alderwood Daily News Publisher Tim Graff came before the City Council Monday night asking the governing body to reconsider the newspapers' legal publication bid the Council rejected last week. Torch initiated the process at last Monday's meeting for rejecting the Alderwood Daily News' bid for legal publications. Torch reasoning, he said, was that he didn't feel the city had done a good job of seeking bids from different newspapers. Torch said the Council in 2001 sent out a negative message to other publications by rejecting the then lower bid of the Yakima Herald-Republic to publish legal notices in its weekly Voices section. Torch said by rejecting the Yakima Herald-Republic bid, the Council sent a message that it was showing favoritism to the Alderwood Daily News and for other newspapers to not even bother to go through the process. At that time, however, then City Manager Dave Fonfara explained in a report to Council that it would be more cost effective to go with the legal bid from the Alderwood Daily News because the city would have to pay a more significant legal publication rate for notices that weren't able to be published in Voices and had to be inserted in the regular legal section of the Yakima Herald-Republic. Fonfara said there was also more flexibility in scheduling by going with the Alderwood Daily News' bid. Last week, the Alderwood Daily News was the lone publication to submit a bid to be the official newspaper of the city of Alderwood. The rate the Alderwood Daily News submitted was 6.70 per column inch, a 30 increase over past rates. Graff told the Council this past Monday night that he believes the Alderwood Daily News met all of the requirements set forth by the city in submitting its bid in a timely manner. Graff said by rejecting the newspapers' bid last week it puts the Alderwood Daily News at a competitive disadvantage because the bid rate it already submitted was made public, giving other publications an advantage in the forthcoming bid resubmission process. Graff said under the terms set forth by the city only two publications qualify to be the official newspaper of the city, those being the Alderwood Daily News and the Yakima Herald-Republic. The specifications set forth in the process require any publication submitting a bid to be of \"general circulation in the City of Alderwood and must be compiled in whole or in part in an office maintained at the place of publication.\" The Alderwood Daily News and the Yakima Herald-Republic, both with offices on Sixth Street in Alderwood, apear to be the only publications meeting those requirements. Graff said last year the city spent about 4,300 for legal advertising. Graff said the newspaper at many times met needed deadlines for the city at a moment's notice. \"We have always worked well with city staff,\" said Graff. Graff said he felt justified in asking for the minimal 4 percent increase in rates because he believes the newspaper has done a superb job for the city. Graff said the rejection of the Alderwood Daily News' bid makes him wonder if it was personally motivated. Councilman Tom Seeger said the legal newspaper bid rejection was nothing personal with him. Seeger said he wanted to make sure the city was getting the best and most conservative bids needed to make sure the Council is spending taxpayers' dollars appropriately. Seeger said the Council has rejected bids in the past and he felt having just one bid wasn't sufficient. \"It is not something new or abnormal (to reject a lone bid),\" said Seeger. \"I am going to go with the low bidder. I don't know who is going to be the low bidder.\" Torch responded to the comments of Graff. \"I think there are other newspapers who serve this community as well,\" said Torch. Torch praised the work completed by Fonfara in the cost comparison done in 2001, but rejected Graff's comments that the Council went with the most conservative bid in 2001. Torch said he wants to look for the best way the Council can spend the citizens' money. Torch added another comment regarding personal issues in the rejection of the Alderwood Daily News' bid. Torch said it is interesting the newspaper can write editorials voicing their opinion on topics, but said he found it equally as interesting that the newspaper is the only one who can have a \"vendetta.\" Graff asked the Council to reconsider the action taken last week to reject the bid. The Council opted to stand by its decision last week. But the evening wasn't done yet concerning issues surrounding the conduct of Torch. Alderwood fireman Bob Johnson read a letter, sent via e-mail, into public record that had come from Torch. No date was given on the letter, but Torch did acknowledge at Monday's meeting he had written the letter. The e-mail includes comments Torch made following a Alderwood Chamber of Commerce meeting. The letter also makes reference to Councilwoman Jennie Angel and the Alderwood Daily News. The letter also talks about how Torch will use his Council vote in ways he sees fit. \"I find this really, really disturbing,\" said Johnson after he read the letter. Johnson said he felt Torch was acting inappropriately and that he did use his Council vote to get into the pockets of the Alderwood Daily News. The following is a copy of Torch' e-mail letter Johnson read into public record at Monday night's Alderwood City Council meeting. \"I am finer than frogs hair---all is well and every day is sunshine--this was just an initial volley at the mother of all lies in our city (DSN) and if it has ome (any) impact I will feel a lot better-- to me the def: of a lie is if a lie is spoke OR if a lie is known and not spoken--same thing (sin of omission or sin of commission) I attended the 1st half of the chamber mtg. fri. night. However, after I was gone the attendees spoke about how awful it was that members of the city council were beating up on B.A. And the fact the whole chamber board knows the truth and did and said NOTHING to defend its self and in particular council, after we have spent so much political capital defending the chamber and its programs and bringing to light the attempt to divide the chamber and the efforts to shed a bad light on it, I am personally ashamed to be associated with such a spineless group that I will NEVER go to bat for them again and I will NEVER AGAIN work behind the scenes in their behalf-- Then the paper who knows the truth and refuses to print all sides of it---I will try to get into their pockets at any opportunity--I DO NOW HAVE AN AGENDA--TRUTH, OR DARE (ME) STRENGTH THROUGH SUPERIOR FIRE POWER--I HAVE MY COUNCIL VOTE--I INTEND TO USE IT LEAD FOLLOW OR GET THE HECK OUT OF MY WAY---but you know that I will do it with a smile and keep my old theme------- TACT: THE ABILITY TO TELL SOMEONE WHERE TO GO AND HAVE THEM ANXIOUS TO GET THERE Share this with whomever you wish John Torch"}
{"Id":"1101243162184","Title":"Torch contends he has no problem with DSN","Author":"John Panni","Time":"3/23/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"\"The animosity is between me and Bob Story (Alderwood Daily News managing editor),\" said Alderwood City Councilman John Torch. Torch used that statement this morning (Tuesday) to clarify what he said is a misconception that the Alderwood City councilman has issues with the Alderwood Daily News. \"The reporters that are there at the newspaper, I have a lot of respect for,\" said Torch. \"I think that Mr. Story is let run amuck with his editorials.\" Torch said that he doesn't have a problem with the local newspaper. Torch said he has always been treated fairly by the reporting staff. Torch said for a long time he has had problems with Story and former Alderwood Daily News Publisher Tom Lanctot. Torch said based on the \"frustrating\" personal history he has with Story and Lanctot, it has led to the animosity he feels towards them today. In regards to a line in an email that was read aloud at Monday night's Alderwood City Council meeting regarding the Alderwood Daily News not printing the truth, Torch replied that he bases that remark on his own research. Torch said that Story in his editorials lets his vendettas be known. Torch said as an individual he has the right to let known his personal gripes. \"I can have my personal feelings,\" said Torch. Torch said if Story can speak for the community in his editorials then why can't he speak for the community from his Council seat. As far as letting his personal feelings factor into the controversy surrounding the rejection of the newspaper's bid to publish legal notices, Torch said he wants to make sure the city is spending its money appropriately. Torch said he is only one vote and the rest of the Council will side as they see accordingly. \"The city gains by a fair bidding process,\" said Torch. \"It (the legal bids) will prove out one way or another"}
{"Id":"1101243181966","Title":"Alderwood City Council Briefs","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"3/19/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"1-Column City should be able to use new fire truck by end of April Alderwood Fire Chief Jim Stanton reported to the City Council this past Monday night on the status of the city's new fire truck. Stanton reported that the city should have access to the fire truck purchased in partnership with Alderwood County by the end of April. Police department earns accolades Alderwood City Councilman Alex de la Cruz extended words of congratulations to the Alderwood Police Department this past Monday night. de la Cruz informed the Council the police department had received a letter from the Federal Bureau of Investigations (FBI). de la Cruz said the Alderwood Police Department was instrumental in capturing a subject who has eluded the FBI since 1996. King holiday to be on April 5 agenda At the request of Alderwood City Councilwoman Jennie Angel, a discussion concerning the Martin Luther King Jr. holiday will be on the April 5 agenda. The city doesn't currently recognized Martin Luther King Jr. Day as a paid holiday for city staff. Angel wants to have the discussion to have the January holiday recognized by the city. City staff to check on annual spring clean-up event Alderwood Mayor Pro-tem George Greenway requested at this past Monday night's Council meeting to have city staff look into whether there will be the annual spring clean-up day. The annual spring clean-up day is held in conjunction with Yakima Waste Systems. Alderwood residents are able to dispose of waste and other materials free of charge. Interim City Manager Bruce Rinz said he would get in contact with Yakima Waste Systems about the status of the event and come back with a report to Council. Seeger in charge of 'Spirit' awards Mayor Rex Luthor placed Councilman Tom Seeger in charge of organizing the annual Spirit of Alderwood awards. The Spirit of Alderwood awards are handed out during the community's annual Fourth of July celebration. Seeger said the awards recognize past, living and youth pioneers in the community. He was hoping to have nominations submitted by May 15"}
{"Id":"1101243182966","Title":"Obituaries","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"3/18/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"WENDELL HOMER MORGAN WENDELL HOMER MORGAN Wendell Homer Morgan, 94, of Yakima passed away Tuesday, March 16, 2004, at Landmark Care Center in Yakima. He was born May 10, 1909 in Alderwood to William and Eurilla (Binkley) Morgan. He received his education in Alderwood, graduating with the class of 1928. During the great Depression he would ride the rails to work in agriculture, later he worked in Oregon as a lumberman. On June 17, 1929 he married Geneva Turnidge in Pasco. In the 1940s Wendell drove milk truck for Morning Milk. He worked in lumber retail for Garren Lumber and Bestway Lumber in Alderwood and for Grandview Lumber. Wendell also owned and operated a small farm in Alderwood and for several years owned and operated the A & W in Grandview. On Jan. 1, 1960 he married Margaret Richey in Alderwood. Wendell and Margaret continued to make their home in Alderwood, until moving to Yakima in December of 2003. Wendell drove school bus for the Alderwood Christian School. After retiring, Wendell was an active member of the Alderwood Grace Brethren Church. He also enjoyed riding motorcycles, camping, traveling, hunting, fishing, woodworking, crossword puzzles and was active in a bowling league until age 93. For many years, Wendell was a member of the Alderwood Volunteer Fire Department and was a regular blood donor. He is survived by his wife of 44 years, Margaret Morgan of Yakima; one son, Bill Morgan and wife, Shirley, of Arizona; four daughters, Valerie Cowles and husband, Don, of Grandview, Tish Cooper and husband, Gary, of Yakima, Dianna Burton and husband, Jim, of Sumner and Velva Myers and husband, Tom, of Aloha, Ore.; 13 grandchildren; 24 great-grandchildren; and six great-great-grandchildren. He was preceded in death by his parents; first wife, Geneva Morgan; two sisters, Edith and Dorothy; and three brothers, Edward, Evertt and Arthur. Viewing and visitation will be held Sunday, March 21, 2004, from 1 to 4 p.m. at Jones Funeral Home, Alderwood. Funeral services will be held Monday, March 22, 2004, at 11 a.m. at Alderwood Grace Brethren Church, Alderwood, with burial to follow at Alderwood Cemetery, under the direction of Jones Funeral Home, Alderwood. Those wishing to honor Wendell s memory may contribute to the Alderwood Grace Brethren Church or Clear Lake Camp of the Grace Brethren Church"}
{"Id":"1101243183231","Title":"Forum","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"3/17/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"1-Column Library vote appreciated WARNING! The 673 Alderwood registered voters who said YES on the library annexation are in danger of being hugged with \"wild abandon\" by me and every other dedicated library user who lives in the county. With no voice in the matter, we just crossed our fingers and hoped. Actually, we said a few prayers, too. While we're busy appreciating the YES voters, we'll include the voters who didn't go to the polls or use the absentee ballots to vote NO. Not voting in this case can be viewed as a willingness to support all Alderwood residents who do use the library, whether they're among that group or not. Just in case I haven't made the intention of this letter clear: thank you, thank you, thank you! Maybe it's a good thing that county residents don't know any of the yes voters or abstainees. There would be a whole lot of hugging going on! /s/ Daphne Stewart, Alderwood Veteran plaques I am a member of the Veterans Memorial Committee, of which Greg Schlieve is the chairman. The second phase of the construction of this memorial is coming to an end. Greg is presently selling bronze plaques that can be purchased for any veteran who has ever served directly in an American war or conflict. The veteran paid a great price by willingly putting his life in harm's way so that the world would be free of tyrants, such as Saddam Hussein. And many gave up their lives for this great cause. Because of them millions of people now live in freedom around the world. And those millions are now closing in on being over a billion in just the last 100 years. Thus, the value of what the veteran has done for humanity cannot be measured. But for 300 they can be remembered. Yes, for 300 you can memorialize the veteran on one of the finest veterans memorials in the United States. It's right here in Alderwood. But time is running out. When these plaques are sold, then the opportunity to remember our war veterans will have passed, and will probably never return to us again during our lifetimes. And all it costs is 300, which is a very small price to pay when you consider how much they have already paid for your freedom, and the freedom of millions and millions people around the world. I urge you to contact Greg Schlieve and purchase a bronze plaque before this opportunity is gone forever. You'll never regret it. /s/ Major Delbert Pease, Alderwood"}
{"Id":"1101243183466","Title":"2004 session ends with a flourish","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"3/17/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"The last week of a legislative session usually sees a flurry of activity as the House and Senate try to agree on key issues before session ends. This year was no different as the Legislature reached compromise on the supplemental operating, capital and transportation budgets, and a replacement for the blanket primary. ? The supplemental operating budget was passed 34-15 by the Senate and 84-12 by the House. There were several reasons why I voted for the budget. It adds roughly 145 million to the 23.2 billion 2003-05 operating budget. It leaves more than 300 million in the state's emergency reserve account, contains no tax increases or \"budget gimmicks,\" and is one of the slowest-growing budgets in state history. Because it leaves a sizable reserve, it helps minimize the budget situation we'll face next year when the state is expected to have a 1 billion revenue shortfall due to necessary spending increases in necessary services and programs. However, the budget kept our commitment to the state's most vulnerable by fully funding nursing homes, supporting community mental health, enhancing domestic violence services and shelters, enhancing agencies on aging funding to lower the caseworker-patient ratio for in-home long-term care, and providing more employment and day services for people with developmental disabilities. ? Since Washington's unemployment rate is still one of the highest in the nation, it's important to protect existing jobs in our state, as well as helping to create more jobs. Early this session, the Legislature did this by extending certain tax credits to high-tech businesses. The bill (ESHB 2546) requires annual surveys regarding job creation and retention to ensure that these tax credits do as planned. We also passed a measure (SSB 6240) extending the rural county sales and use tax deferral and B&O tax credit for software job creation. Under the bill, a 1,000 B&O tax credit is available for each new software manufacturing or computer-programming job created in a rural county. ? Washington's aluminum smelting industry has declined in recent years because of lower aluminum prices in the global aluminum commodities market and local increases in the price of electricity, a major cost driver in aluminum prices. In 1998, the industry in the state employed over 5,300 people. In 2002, only 2,200 persons were employed. Late this session, the Legislature passed a measure (2SSB 6304) providing tax incentives to protect jobs in the aluminum industry through 2006. Under the bill, smelters must submit annual reports for accountability. This measure should help our aluminum companies. ? The passage of the 202 million 2004 supplemental capital construction budget marks the first time in state history that a capital budget has passed by the Legislature without new bonds. The capital budget includes funds for Klickitat County to address the tire pile problem near Goldendale. ? This year, the Legislature was forced to adopt an alternative to the state's blanket primary when it was ruled unconstitutional in federal court. Last week, the House and Senate agreed on an alternative (ESB 6453) called the Top Two system, which has one ballot at the primary election on which all candidates appear. The two candidates in each race who receive the most votes, regardless of party, advance to the general election. This means it's possible for two candidates from the same party to wind up in a general election. The bill will insert the Montana-style primary if the Top Two system is thrown out by the courts. Gov. Locke has hinted that he might veto the Top Two system, which would give us the Montana system, in which voters would have to pick one party's ballot, although their privacy would be protected. ? On the last night of session, the Legislature passed a bill (ESHB 2460) reforming the small-market health insurance system. The bill was expected to help provide more affordable health care coverage for thousands of workers employed at small businesses in Washington. The final version of the bill made some changes to the state's insurance mandates but still requires any product to cover \"every category of provider.\" Some believe removing this mandate is the key to driving down health insurance costs for small employers. ? This year, the Legislature unanimously passed a bill (SB 6615) I prime-sponsored that encourages employment of injured workers with developmental disabilities. ? One disappointment was the failure for the House and Senate to agree on a liability reform package. This also is known as tort reform. A proposal (ESSB 5728) passed by the Senate sought to make changes to medical malpractice liability modeled after California's law. ? Skamania County this year is celebrating its 150th anniversary. The Senate recognized this special occasion by passing a resolution that I introduced. The resolution recognized the rich history of Skamania County and acknowledged the 150th birthday celebration on March 9 in Stevenson. Sen. Jim Honeyford (R-Alderwood) serves the 15th Legislative District"}
{"Id":"1101243183934","Title":"Annexation vote means more reading materials, local services for patrons of Alderwood library","Author":"Jamie Smart","Time":"3/15/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"With Alderwood residents' March 9th approval of the Alderwood Public Library annexation into the larger Yakima Regional Library System, local library patrons can expect to see many changes at the local facility. But many of those changes won't come until 2005, when the regional system takes over the Alderwood library, said Monica Weyhe, executive director of the regional library system. \"We thank the voters for their vote of confidence,\" said Weyhe. Alderwood voters approved the library annexation proposal with an overwhelming 77 percent \"yes\" vote during a special annexation election held last week. \"Now begins the process of asking the library patrons what additional services they want at their library, \"she said. Currently, classes in computer use, in English and Spanish, are among the popular services utilized by the Alderwood community, she said. \"I can see us doing more of those, she said. The local patrons will also see more books, videos, CDs and other materials available in Alderwood in the coming months, Weyhe said. \"We also plan to make a number of improvements to the building, which will be turned over to the regional system in 2005,\" Weyhe said. \"What those improvements will be exactly will be determined after regional library officials have an opportunity to further survey the facility,\" she said. Currently, popular services at the Alderwood library have included more than 71,865 requests for books, videos, magazines and music CDs, as well as 18,364 sessions on the library's bank of computers. \"The Alderwood library computers are among the busiest in the regional library's system,\" Weyhe said. The present library board members appointed by the Alderwood mayor to serve as an advisory board is expected to be disbanded as a result of the annexation. When the Alderwood library becomes a part of the regional system, it will be governed by the regional board. Next week, the local library board will meet to begin the transition of the local leadership to the regional system, said John Saras. \"The local library board will meet Tuesday, March 23, to make a decision about what will become of that board,\" said Saras. \"I expect a new Friends of the Library group will be formed at a later date,\" he said. The group that worked on the Alderwood library annexation has already expressed an interest in helping with the transition, said Pat Kezele, who was the ballot chairman. \"We are looking forward to forming a 'Friends' group as a local advisory body to the regional system,\" Kezele said. Alderwood Interim City Manager Mike Rinz said the city had budgeted 65,000 for the local library this year, but with the passage of the annexation, the regional library system will be helping to maintain the library through this year. \"We expect to begin the transition talks with the regional system soon,\" he said. Weyhe said she expects surveys will be distributed to the library patrons at a later date to determine what future services patrons would like to see at the library"}
{"Id":"1101243184169","Title":"Obituaries","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"3/15/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"ALFONSO ALVAREZ, SR ALFONSO ALVAREZ, SR. Alfonso Alvarez, Sr., 80, of Grandview, passed away March 11, 2004, at Grandview Health Care Center. Alfonso was born July 10, 1923 in Blackwell, Okla. and was a Navy World War II veteran. He worked for 35 years at Inland Steel Mill Corp. in Chicago, Ind. He retired in 1976 and moved to Mabton to enjoy his life with his sons, David and Alfonso Jr., along with his loving wife, Soledad. Alfonso was a devoted Jehovah s Witness. He is survived by his loving wife, Soledad Alvarez; two sons, David and Alfonso Alvarez Jr.; two grandchildren; a sister, Connie Flores of Denver, Colo.; and one brother, Ruben Hernandez of Lincoln, Neb. Vigil services will be held today, Monday, March 15, 2004, at 7 p.m. at Alderwood Chapel of Valley Hills Funeral Home. Funeral services will be held Tuesday, March 16, 2004, at 1 p.m. at Alderwood Chapel of Valley Hills Funeral Home with burial to follow in Lower Valley Memorial Gardens"}
{"Id":"1101243204075","Title":"Historic downtown building receives facelift both inside and out","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"3/12/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"GRANDVIEW - For many people the idea of taking on the refurbishment of a 15,000 square foot building that was first built in 1911 and now serves as an apartment building and retail space might be seen as too large a task. However, on Feb. 2 that is the exact task that taken on by Prosser resident Lynn Boast. Boast purchased the Iowa building in downtown Grandview just a little more than five weeks ago, and since making the purchase has jumped into the project with both feet. \"I think this building has a lot of potential,\" Boast said. The building is a two-story brick structure located on Division Street in Grandview. According to the Washington State Advisory Council on Historic Preservation, it was built in 1911 with two large retail spaces on the main floor and offices located upstairs. In 1937, the offices were transformed into apartments. As for the retail spaces on the main floor, they have housed everything from a billiard hall to the community library, which moved into the building in 1914. Boast, who calls himself a history buff, said it has been interesting to work on a building with so much of its own history. In fact, Grandview Mayor Mike Bren said he can remember as a child going door-to-door in the upstairs apartments selling everything from candy to greeting cards. He said his fourth grade teacher used to live in the downtown building. Bren said it's encouraging to see someone come into the community and make an investment in the downtown area. Boast said since purchasing the building a lot of work has already been done. He noted that he has already taken nine large truck loads of garbage out of the building and to the dump, including the old carpet from one of the retail spaces that is not currently rented out. He said taking the carpet out of the retail space meant not only taking the carpet out, but also the other layers of various flooring that had been installed during the course of the building's history. Boast said one of the first things he did when obtaining the building, which is made up of a basement, main floor and second floor, each 5,000 square feet in size, was to scrub down the walls and start painting everything white. \"We've already put an enormous amount of paint into it,\" Boast said. \"But I feel like I'm just getting started.\" Painting isn't the only work that has gone on the past five weeks. Boast has also updated the building's electrical system, replacing all of the fuse boxes with circuit breaker panels. He said a new heating system will also be installed in the building, as well as new carpet and linoleum. As for the refurbishment of the upstairs apartments, Boast said he is working on those two at a time. Boast explained that of the 10 apartments, two of them are not currently rented, which is why he started work on those two spaces first. He said he plans on working on the apartments two at a time, having the residents shift into the updated apartments as they are completed. When it comes to the apartments, of which there are six studios, two one-bedrooms and two two-bedrooms, a lot of work is being done to renovate the spaces. Walking through one of the studio apartments, Boast pointed out the freshly painted walls, the new bathtub/shower combination in the bathroom, as well as where the new bathroom sink and toilet will be installed. Boast said the refurbishment will mean that all of the apartments will in time have showers, which is something they haven't had in the past. In fact, Boast said many of the apartments still have claw-foot bathtubs. He said the small kitchen will also receive some updates, including a new backsplash, countertop and flooring. In the main living space of the studio apartment, Boast pointed to the large windows and explained that they will be updated, and new flooring and light fixtures will also be installed. Overall, Boast said he has been happy to see the cooperation and excitement about the project coming from the people who currently live in the building. \"What's amazed me most is not the building, but the cooperation from everyone,\" Boast said. On the main floor of the building, Boast has been working hard to update the retail space that is currently open. The space has 16 1/2 foot pressed tin ceilings, as well as a large loft in the back of the building. Going up into the loft it is possible to get an upclose look at the intricate pattern pressed into the tin tiles. All in all, Boast said he feels all of the work that has been done has been a move in the right direction. However, there is still a lot of work to be completed. Boast said he is planning on having someone come in to work on the exterior of the building, as well"}
{"Id":"1101243204606","Title":"Local taxpayers get a break with sale of school bonds","Author":"John Panni","Time":"3/11/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"Jubilation filled the meeting room of the Alderwood School Board during a special gathering of directors last night to approve the sale of 11 million in bonds to construct a new school. Alderwood School District patrons approved an 11 million bond issue to construct the new school in the area of Washout and Sheller roads during a Feb. 3 election. At the same time, district voters also approved a four-year 1.4 million levy. But last night's meeting had nothing to do with the levy, but rather with some good news that residents of the Alderwood School District should be more than happy to hear. When the matter was originally put before voters, school district officials expected patrons to be paying 1.61 per 1,000 of assessed property value to cover the cost of the bond issue. Jon Gores of Seattle-Northwest Securities Corporation, which handled the bond transaction for the school district on Wednesday, reported last night to an elated board that district residents will only be paying 1.51 per 1,000 of assessed property value, or 10 less than originally estimated. Gores sold all 11 million in bonds for the school district yesterday (Wednesday) morning. The district will see significant savings in interest costs. Originally, it was projected the district would incur an interest cost of 5.59 percent. Gores sold the bonds yesterday at a net interest cost of 3.62 percent, resulting in a savings of slightly more than 2.2 million dollars. The actual interest cost on the bonds will be 4.3 million. Gores also reported that because of the way the bonds were purchased, the district will be able to use all 11 million for its capital projects fund. The bonds will mature in 2017. Gores added the bonds sold well on Wednesday, as many buyers were willing to purchase them at a higher value. Purchasing the bonds at a higher value results in more of a significant cash flow being available for the buyer, said Gores. \"The main reason they (buyers) do it is because they are convinced interest rates are going to go up,\" said Gores. In the end, the 11 million in bonds were sold for 11.2 million. The district is able to utilize the 239,183 in premium money gained to pay for the underwriting of the bonds. Gores' company is being paid 77,660 by the district for selling the bonds, leaving 11.1 million left to utilize for projects. The money in excess of 11 million will go into the district's debt service fund to help pay for costs associated with the project. The bonds that were sold are exempt from federal income tax because the money is being used for a public improvement project. The Alderwood County treasurer is expected to release the money for the bonds to the school district on March 25. This is the same date as the March school board meeting, at which time local directors are expected to approve the hiring of an architect to begin work on the design phase for the construction of the new school"}
{"Id":"1101243205091","Title":"Grandview Chamber to spearhead downtown revitalization project","Author":"John Panni","Time":"3/10/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"GRANDVIEW - Picking up the ball and running with an idea. That is what Grandview Mayor Mike Bren is hoping the local chamber of commerce will do with his suggestion. Bren was on hand at Tuesday's meeting of the Grandview Chamber of Commerce to offer members the lead role in beautifying Grandview's downtown area, which has been an area of much discussion lately. \"There is nothing to attract any of us to go to downtown Grandview,\" said Bren, who runs a business in the downtown sector. Bren told chamber members there has been a lot of economic positives going on outside of downtown Grandview, such as the newly opened Wal-Mart distribution center. The Grandview mayor, though, added no major business has ventured into downtown. In hopes of turning the misfortunes of the downtown area around, Bren offered a partnership of sorts to the Grandview chamber. Bren said the city obtained 15,000 from the Lower Alderwood Valley Rural Enterprise Community (REC), that has been earmarked for Grandview's downtown area. Bren suggested the chamber take that money and utilize it to find ways of improving the downtown area. Bren also said the city would work with the chamber on finding additional money for downtown improvements. \"The chamber, we feel, kind of needs to run with this,\" said Bren. \"We are committed as a Council to find money to clean-up the downtown. It is horrible. I think it is a chance for us to improve the downtown area.\" With the 15,000, Bren suggested the chamber use 3,000 of that to map out a plan and budget to go towards downtown revitalization. Bren said the planning portion would basically outline the objectives of the program and put in place a time line for achieving those goals. With another 8,000, the Grandview mayor suggested hiring a staff member to conduct a neighborhood outreach program to help with the implementation of the downtown revitalization plan. The remaining 4,000 would be used for implementation of the program. Bren said all money the city obtained from the REC has to be used by Oct. 1. \"The downtown is not like it used to be,\" he said. Bren said that is something he hears quite often from residents. Bren pointed out the changes in the downtown area, which at different points in Grandview's history was thriving, can be traced back to its residents. \"The downtown is not like that today because we got in our cars and drove to Yakima and the Tri-Cities,\" said Bren. Grandview Chamber of Commerce President Jim Herriman asked members to volunteer for the task of working with the city to improve downtown Grandview. \"Ask yourself what you can do for this community to make it better. To make it shine,\" stated Herriman. \"It is a very easy task (to do) for many people.\" During a special meeting the chamber board held following the regular gathering, Bren talked more about what needs to be done to improve downtown Grandview. \"It just needs to be a pleasant place to go,\" said Bren. \"We want to make it inviting.\" Chamber board member Mike Bradshaw asked what kind of ordinances the city has in regards to beautification. Bren said he didn't want to see any more city ordinances implemented, but rather felt it would work out better if the downtown business owners and residents bought in to the idea of making positive changes. Chamber member Dottie Cervantes suggested holding public forums to receive the input of business owners. Cervantes wanted to have translation services available in hopes of getting Hispanic business owners involved. The chamber voted to take the lead role, utilizing the REC money, to tackle the issue of downtown revitalization in Grandview. The chamber formed a committee to move forward with the project. \"We are going to have to do this piece by piece,\" said Herriman"}
{"Id":"1101243205591","Title":"Pediatrician abandons island life to work at local clinic","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"3/9/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"GRANDVIEW - Moving across a large blue ocean from the South Pacific to Grandview wasn't as big a move for Dr. James Gaensbauer as one might think. Gaensbauer, a new pediatrician at the Alderwood Valley Farm Workers Clinic in Grandview, was in the South Pacific as part of the National Health Services Corp. He explained that the organization helps pay for medical school if a student agrees that after graduation they will work in places that are short of doctors. This is how Gaensbauer came to live in both the South Pacific and the Alderwood Valley. Gaensbauer, who is originally from Denver, Colo., graduated from medical school at Vanderbilt University. He explained that he chose to go into medicine for a combination of reasons, including a sense of idealistic values and an intense interest in science. Both Gaensbaur's father and grandfather are also doctors. Gaensbauer said working through the Health Services organization has worked out well for him. \"What I wanted to do was work in underserved communities,\" Gaensbauer said. \"It allows me to work in the environment I want to work in.\" Gaensbauer explained that the way Health Services works is that hospitals and clinics apply to be put on the organization's list, which doctors who are part of the Corp. look at when deciding where they want to work. For Gaensbauer, the move to Grandview was one he chose to make because he wanted to bring his family, including his wife and two young children, back to the continental United States. Now that he's worked in Grandview for the better part of a year, Gaensbauer, who started at the local clinic in July 2003, said he has found himself enjoying the experience. Gaensbauer said he now has his own list of patients, but also sees walk-ins regularly. Gaensbauer said he finds it rewarding to work in pediatrics because of the resilience of children. \"Pediatrics [offers] the opportunity for a child to walk in very sick and in the short term to walk out completely better,\" Gaensbauer said. \"It's a satisfying population.\" Although Gaensbauer works every day at the Grandview Farm Worker's Clinic, he chose to move his family to Prosser. He explained that all doctors from the local clinic admit their patients to Prosser Memorial Hospital, and therefore each doctor spends a fair amount of time at the Prosser facility. \"It's easier to be closer to the hospital,\" he said. Gaensbauer said even though he is still working through the Health Services Corp., he will likely be at the Alderwood Valley Farm Workers Clinic for at least three years"}
{"Id":"1101243205825","Title":"Working Stiff","Author":"Melissa Browning","Time":"3/8/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"Alderwood resident Lisa Fairbairn was at a crossroads when the job as administrative assistant for Alderwood's Promise group fell into her lap. She wanted to be involved in her son's classroom at school and still be able to work. Volunteering her time at her church, Fairbairn, a Alderwood native, learned of the position with Alderwood's Promise, a group devoted to providing opportunities for youth. After being hired for the part-time position, Fairbairn began organizing and planning all of the meetings and special events sponsored by Alderwood's Promise. \"I work directly with the board to make decisions on what kinds of projects will work,\" said Fairbairn. The group is devoted to five promises it has made to local youths-providing educational opportunities, developing marketable skills, establishing safe places, making available caring adults and ensuring for kids there are opportunities to serve. \"I make sure there are no holes or duplications when it comes to meeting the goals,\" said Fairbairn. One of the activities Fairbairn has helped organize is the annual Promise to Read event, including Book the Chief day. Heavily focused on reading, Alderwood's Promise recently donated 1,200 books to Outlook School, said Fairbairn. Alderwood's Promise also partners with other activities as a way to pool resources and be more visible in the community, according to Fairbairn. She said the group helps on activities such as National Night Out and Red Ribbon week. Alderwood's Promise is planning a Promise to Succeed event for April 14. She said the group will be bringing in comedian Jeremy Huffman. The group will also be holding an open mic night in conjunction with Huffman's evening performance. Fairbairn said the group's always looking for new ways to involve youth. Fairbairn said she has worked in a variety of different settings, including floral shops and for a while she worked with her brother, who was the first person to have ice cream trucks in Alderwood. But she considers her work with Alderwood's Promise the most rewarding. \"It's about quality of life for the kids in Alderwood,\" said Fairbairn. \"My son's young and if we don't try to correct the problems we have now, what's it going to be like when he gets to high school?\" she asked. For as many obstacles as are facing the youth of Alderwood, Fairbairn said there are also wonderfully caring adults and young people with great ideas. \"These kids have awesome ideas and we just need to listen and to give them a chance,\" she said. Fairbairn feels she is lucky to be able to help the youth of the community and still have the time to volunteer at her church. She added that her schedule also gives her the opportunity to help in her 8-year-old son, Hank's, classroom. Fairbairn also has two adult stepsons and will be a grandmother next month. . Melissa Browning can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or e-mail mbrowning@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101243226622","Title":"Hart Beat","Author":"Jamie Smart","Time":"3/5/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"I recently lost my library card. I didn't put a lost and found ad in the newspaper's classified section, but I was tempted. I virtually couldn't function without my library card. I need to know that if I want to check out the latest best sellers for a weekend read, the librarians at Alderwood Public Library aren't going to shake their finger at me and say, \"no card, no book.\" I didn't discover my card missing until I attempted to request an inter-library loan of a odd little book of short stories by an obscure San Francisco author. As soon as I found out that my precious blue and white plastic card, engraved with my personal library patron code, was missing, the search was on. During the three months it took for me to track it down, I was a nervous wreck. Fortunately, after a great deal of searching and retracing of my steps, I eventually found it in one of my summer purses. I had forgotten I had placed my phone card, library card and driver's license in the smaller wallet for convenience this past summer. The phone card and driver's license made it into my fall handbag, but I overlooked my library card. Breathing a heavy sigh of relief I immediately had to go visit our Alderwood librarians, first to let them know I had found my card, and then to activate it. I simply had to check out as many books they would let me borrow. I have a horrible fear of not having enough reading material available. I like to have reading materials in every room of the house and in my car. In the summer, I like to take books on vacation with me or just to relax with in the back yard. My library card allows me to shift my reading material frequently, while giving me the liberty to explore as many genres of writing as I desire. It's wonderful to have the huge selection of materials afforded me by our library. I can't remember a time when I haven't made use of public libraries. I've loved them since I discovered there are thousands of books just waiting for my eager mind to absorb. One of my first jobs was cataloguing my little school library, a job which found me reading more than sorting. My children started going to the library as infants. They spent a lot of hours chewing on the covers of books while I read them bedtime stories. I accessed the library for information about parenting and childhood illness. I found recipes to try on the families and books to decorate our home. I taught my children to love books using the library system. My oldest daughter and her husband are passing that love of reading on to their small family. My grandchildren are also avid library patrons, going to the library several times a month to check out new reading material, movies and music. They use the Internet, via the bank of public access computers. Even the youngest member of our family, Moose, makes use of the many games and puzzles available for the littlest library patrons. The library is well used by my family and many others in the city of Alderwood. I agree with First Lady Laura Bush, who has been quoted as saying that her library card is the most valuable thing in her wallet. I know it is in mine. I want to keep it in my possession, which is why I urge everyone to vote for the proposed annexation of the Alderwood Library into the Yakima Regional Library System on Tuesday, March 9. Our city leaders have decided they can't afford to finance our library, as it currently does, beyond 2004, so we, as voters and readers, must vote to keep it open. Alderwood city library patrons must decide if they want their families to continue to have ready access to the most precious card in their wallets. We all must say \"Yes\" to the proposed annexation of our library into the Yakima Regional Library System. I believe a \"yes\" vote is the best and biggest investment we can make for our children and generations to come. For most of us that will amount to a little more than 4.13 a month on our property tax bill. You can't even buy a paperback novel for that amount. But by paying the extra 4, we have the world in our laps each time we sit down to read a library book. Join me at the voting polls next Tuesday to keep our library intact"}
{"Id":"1101243227372","Title":"Council touches up graffiti ordinance","Author":"John Panni","Time":"3/2/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"One still has to be 21 years of age to purchase any sort of graffiti-causing materials, but last night the Alderwood City Council did approve some changes in its newly adopted ordinance. On Feb. 9, the Alderwood City Council adopted an ordinance banning the sale of graffiti-marking materials to people under 21 years of age. The ordinance was adopted as a way to help curb a significant increase in the amount of graffiti incidents being seen around Alderwood. The new ordinance also empowers the city to take graffiti offenders or their parents/guardians to civil court to recoup damages. When the ordinance was adopted Feb. 9, Councilwoman Jennie Angel cast the lone vote against the measure. Angel expressed some concern with prohibiting young adults from purchasing such materials. Angel also had doubts that businesses would be able to comply with certain parts of the ordinance with such short notice. Angel said she would have liked to have seen city staff receive input and work with local businesses before composing such an ordinance. The amendments to the ordinance the Council adopted last night were minimal. Interim City Manager Bruce Rinz said he feels the graffiti ordinance gives the city an avenue to hold graffiti offenders accountable. Rinz said he visited with several businesses about the ordinance following the Feb. 9 meeting. \"Every retailer I talked to is in support of the ordinance,\" said Rinz. One of the recommended amendments approved last night came from Ace Hardware. The amendment states that every business owner who owns an establishment that sells graffiti-marking implements will post a sign at each cash register or where graffiti implements are displayed, stating that no such items will be sold to anyone under 21 years of age. The other amendment defines the tip of a felt-tip marker. The amendment states any felt-tip marker with tip one-half inch or greater shall be required to be stored in the direct line of sight of a staff member. Another amendment last night adopted by the Council defines graffiti-related items that can't be sold to those under 21 years of age. Rinz said there was some cleaning up of the section dealing with which items fell under the requirement for having to be placed in a storage display. Rinz said the verbage was condensed and made more concise because the store managers pointed out that almost any item, such as a nail, could be used to cause graffiti. Rinz said the ordinance reads better now because it defines which items, such as aerosol paint containers, aerosol paint brushes and felt-tip markers, have to be either stored or be in direct line of sight of an employee. Another section was removed from the ordinance which could conceivably allow parents, whose children have been found liable in a civil court for damages, to hold a store financially responsible. Rinz said this section might be revisited later, but for now it was best left out. Rinz said the ordinance will now become effective five days from legal publication. The only exception is the portion regarding the displaying of such graffiti-causing items. Businesses will have until June 1 to be in compliance with this part of the ordinance. Angel said she was pleased staff went back and spoke with the different retailers in town. \"When we do that we really value our business community,\" said Angel. Councilman John Torch was also content with the ordinance. Torch said the ordinance will hold parents responsible for what their children do. Anyone found guilty of causing graffiti, which is defined as a misdemeanor, can be assessed up to a 1,000 fine. Councilman Alex de la Cruz felt the ordinance very much empowers city officials, such as police officers, judges and prosecutors, to tackle head on the issue of graffiti. \"I am extremely happy with the process,\" said Councilman Tom Seeger, who initiated the ordinance. \"The process was good. We got the job done"}
{"Id":"1101243228107","Title":"School bonds go on sale March 10","Author":"John Panni","Time":"3/1/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"Based on a recommendation from John Gores of Seattle-Northwest Securities Corporation, the Alderwood School Board opted to fast-track plans to sell bonds to help finance the construction of a new school voters approved during an election at the beginning of February. Voters on Feb. 3 approved a bond/levy measure that could bring in as much as 46 million. Under the approved measure, Alderwood residents will be paying 1.41 per 1,000 of assessed property value to pay for the levy. The district devised a method where patrons wouldn't have to pay for the bond debt as long as the levy issue passed. The four-year levy voters approved is for 1.4 million annually. The bond issue approved is for 11 million. The district will utilize state matching dollars to construct a new middle school and a new kindergarten through fifth grade elementary school in the area of Washout Road and Van Belle Road. The district will also be able to utilize state money to modernize Washington Elementary School and Alderwood High School. Gores told the school board last week the district has several positives going for it as it tries to sell the bonds voters approved. He said the district has a quality triple A credit rating. The district will also be able to take advantage of the state's credit rating in the selling of bonds. Gores was originally looking to sell the bonds later in the spring, but wants to move the date to March 10 to take advantage of the market right now. Gores told the school board the bond market is volatile right now and the district would do well to sell the bonds as quickly as possible. Gores wants to sell the bonds on March 10, between 6:30 and 9:30 a.m. Once the bond prices are set by buyers, the school board will meet to approve a bond resolution, authorizing the sale of the bonds. Board members opted to meet at 6 p.m. in the meeting room on March 10. The bonds will be sold March 10 with the district to receive the money by April 1. \"Now is a great time to sell bonds,\" said Gores"}
{"Id":"1101243228341","Title":"Briefs","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"3/1/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"1-Column Hastings asks USDA to purchase more asparagus WASHINGTON, D.C. - Rep. Doc Hastings (R-Pasco) is leading a bipartisan coalition of Washington and Michigan lawmakers in asking the U.S. Dept. of Agriculture to make a bonus purchase of asparagus for the nation's federal nutrition programs. Hastings said American asparagus growers compete at a disadvantage in the domestic market because of increased asparagus imports from Peru. He explained Peruvian growers benefit immensely from the duty-free access to U.S. markets they were granted in 1991 by the Andean Trade Preferences Act. \"A purchase this spring would help our asparagus growers, who are working hard to meet the challenge presented by increased duty-free imports,\" Hastings said. State charges two Alderwood County nursing assistants OLYMPIA - The Washington State Department of Health's Nursing Assistant Program has leveled formal charges against two Alderwood County nursing assistants. The state has charged Viola Jones, an applicant to reactivate her nursing assistant certification, with unprofessional conduct. Jones allegedly pled guilty to obtaining or attempting to obtain a controlled substance by fraud, deceit or misrepresentation. Also charged from Alderwood County is Gabriela Madrigal. State officials say while applying for reactivation of her nursing assistant certification, Madrigal failed to disclose she pled guilty to burglary. Both women had 20 days from when the charges were leveled to respond to the Department of Health in writing. Cases then enter a settlement process, but if no disciplinary agreement can be reached, a hearing is scheduled. Impact of when a local story goes national topic of public forum MABTON - A journalism advocacy group will hold a public forum on Wednesday, March 10, at the Silver Dollar Cafe in Mabton to discuss the impacts to a community when a local story becomes national and international news. The William O. Douglas chapter of the Society of Professional Journalists is coordinating the event. It will include a panel discussion on how the news media directed its mad cow coverage and how that coverage continues to affect the community. The public is invited to the 7:30 to 9:30 p.m. free event, and questions from the audience will be encouraged"}
{"Id":"1101243248294","Title":"Valley's Republican precinct caucuses to help mold GOP local, national platforms","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"2/27/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Alderwood County Republicans will soon have a chance to help mold the 2004 GOP platform, taking an up-close look at everything from national issues affecting the country to local issues taking place right here in the Alderwood Valley. Tuesday, March 9, Alderwood County Republicans will gather at 26 locations throughout the Valley to discuss platform issues and select delegates to the Alderwood County Republican Convention, which will take place Saturday, April 24. Alderwood's Chad Werkhoven, third district commissioner for the Alderwood County Republican Party, explained that the precinct caucuses serve as a way for people to have input on the political party. \"You just can't miss the opportunity to set the agenda,\" he said. All registered voters are invited to attend the precinct caucuses, with the only restrictions being that a person must attest to being a Republican and must not have attended caucuses for any other political party. Werkhoven said once a person has signed in at the precinct caucus they will be given a questionnaire to fill out. The questionnaire, which is sent to the local precincts from the state Republican party, deals with national, state and local issues. Werkhoven explained that the results from the questionnaires are compiled and then used to decide what the state Republican platform will be in 2004. Once the questionnaires have been filled out by all attendees, Werkhoven said delegates are selected to take part in the upcoming Alderwood County convention, which is where the official county GOP platform will be adopted. Werkhoven explained that each precinct is allowed to send a select number of delegates to the county convention. This year instead of each precinct conducting its own caucus, several different precincts will gather together for their meetings. For example, registered voters in precincts 1701-1703, 1705-1706, 1708, 3209, 4109, 4303, 4615, 4618, 4628 and 5001 will gather together for a meeting in the gymnasium at Alderwood Christian Elementary School in Alderwood. The Grandview meeting, which includes precincts 301-306, 3101, 3105 and 4105, will take place at the Carl L. Stevens Senior Center. The Mabton meeting, which includes precincts 901, 3601 and 4002, will take place at the Mabton School Administration building, and the Granger meeting, covering precincts 501, 3002, 3303 and 3902, will take place at in the library of Roosevelt Elementary School. For information on which meeting to attend contact Republican headquarters at (509) 972-0631 or 1-800-972-7545, or call the Alderwood County Auditor's Office at (509) 453-1340. . Ellie Olmsen can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or e-mail her at eolmstead@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101243248560","Title":"State proposes Sunday liquor sales","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"2/26/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"Traditionally, liquor stores throughout the state of Washington have been a Monday through Saturday affair. However, House Bill 2131 is threatening to change that tradition, allowing liquor stores to open their doors for Sunday sales. Rep. Bruce Chandler (R-Granger) explained that the bill, which was passed by the Washington State House of Representatives last week and is currently in the Senate Ways and Means Committee, would create a pilot program that would allow 20 state-run liquor stores to open for Sunday sales. According to the Distilled Spirits Council of the United States, there are currently 27 states that allow Sunday liquor sales, including Oregon. Lisa Hawkins, a spokesperson for the council, said many states see Sunday sales as a way to help generate more state tax revenue. Chandler said he is not convinced that over time Sunday sales would help raise more money. He said studies done in Oregon have found that although people are making purchases on Sunday, Saturday sales have fallen. He explained that people who would regularly purchase liquor on Saturday evening are now simply waiting to make the purchase on Sunday. \"It was a wash,\" Chandler said. Chandler said the pilot program would allow stores in the largest markets in the state to remain open on Sunday. He noted that after a set amount of time the state would go back and evaluate those stores to see if Sunday sales are proving to be successful. Chandler, who voted against the bill in the house, said he believes Sunday sales will mean an increase in the cost of operations for many stores, noting that stores are going to have to pay employees to man the stores an extra day each week. Theresa Hancock, owner of the Funny Farm, which serves as the Alderwood liquor store, explained that if the bill passes she won't necessarily be directly affected. She said the bill would give her the option, as the owner of a contract liquor store, to stay open on Sundays, but it's not an option she feels she would ever take advantage of. The Funny Farm, like Spirits Etc. in Grandview, is one of 155 contract liquor stores in the state. According to the Washington State Liquor Control Board, contract stores operate under contract with the state. Hancock explained that as a private business owner she is still responsible for everything from paying the rent to labor costs. State run liquor stores are operated by the state with state employees. According to the liquor control board, state run stores service more populated areas in the state. Hancock said the nearest state run liquor stores are located in Yakima and the Tri-Cities. As a contract store, Hancock said she would be given the option to open for Sunday sales. \"Personally, I object to Sunday sales,\" Hancock said. She said she feels Sunday should be a day of rest for everyone. She also pointed out that being open on Sunday would mean an increase in her labor and overhead costs, but not necessarily an increase in her sales. \"I think they could learn from Oregon without changing our liquor laws,\" Hancock said. Debbie Tucker, owner of Spirits Etc. in Grandview, echoed Hancock's sentiments, noting that if the bill passes and she is given the opportunity to stay open on Sunday, she most likely wouldn't do it. \"It's the one day I get to not think about this stuff,\" Tucker said of Sundays. She said as a business owner with a family, Sunday is her day to get things done for her household, including the weekly shopping. \"I just don't think it's a good idea,\" she said. Chandler, who originally supported the bill, said he did so because it had a companion bill that would have given a share of the revenue from liquor sales to rural counties. He said when the companion bill was killed, HB 2131 lost his support. Chandler said the Sunday sales bill is currently in the Senate Ways and Means Committee. \"It has a ways to go,\" he said. . Ellie Olmsen can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or e-mail her at eolmstead@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101243249044","Title":"Forum","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"2/25/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"1-Column No choice now but to vote yes I can't imagine Alderwood without a library. It is a vital resource in our community that offers a myriad of knowledge, entertainment and activities to people of all ages. I anticipate if we annex into the regional system we will ultimately be very pleased with the growth and positive changes that will make our library an even better asset to our city. But how did we get in this predicament? Where are our priorities? Instead of setting aside the yearly cost of the library when there was a surplus, the City Council spent funds on the gazebo and landscaping, the Sixth Street and Edison Avenue plaque to drive our cars over, the public bathrooms, the pathway leading part way around the park and several statues. These are all nice additions, but certainly far less important to our community than a library. The City Council surely knows that no one wants our library to close, so how can it be that they have no back-up plan, and no emergency funds are available to rescue the library should this annexation vote fail? If we want to keep our library, they have left us no choice but to vote yes. But we will have a choice at the next City Council election, and I for one will remember who put us in this position. I hope you will too. /s/ Myrtis J. Lang, Alderwood Library support The Alderwood library is important to me because I can re-write school assignments on the computers. I can also look things up on the internet, which offers a world of information at my fingertips. But that's not all...there's also a world to discover concealed under the covers of thousands of books. Reading has become one of my most favorite interests. At the Alderwood library, one can sit and read for hours and not be disturbed. The people who work there are friendly and helpful. These workers seem to enjoy helping anyone find a book that is interesting, good and fun to read. /s/ Robert Ruppert, fifth grader, Chief Kamiakin Elementary School"}
{"Id":"1101243249263","Title":"Construction of jail at county fairgrounds to begin in next few weeks","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"2/25/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"YAKIMA - In the next couple of weeks people living near the Central Washington State Fairgrounds could see some movement as far as construction of the new county jail is concerned. Jake Jundt, jail project manager, said stage one of the jail project is already under contract, permits are in place and construction should be starting soon. Tuesday morning, Alderwood County commissioners voted to set a bid opening date for bid package two for the first phase of stage one of the jail project. The bid opening was set for Tuesday, March 16, at 1 p.m. Jundt explained that phase one of the project includes two stages that will ultimately lead to two 288-bed housing facilities being built, as well as an administration building. The first stage of the project involves the construction of the first 288-bed facility, with the second phase including the second 288-bed facility and the administration building. Jundt said plans are still being compiled for stage two. Jundt said at this point phase one of the project includes all of the current plans for the jail site, located near the Central Washington State Fairgrounds. He said phase two of the project will be looked at in the future, when more housing capacity is needed. According to Jundt, bid package one for the first stage of phase one of the project was the contract to transfer the Pierce County facility from Pierce County to the Alderwood County jail site, as well as the work to transform the temporary facility into a permanent structure. He said bid package two includes some site work, as well as some work to the building's interior. Jundt said the site work includes work on curbs, gutters and sidewalks, while the interior work includes some structural construction, including stud walls, ceilings and floors. Although work is scheduled to begin soon, Jundt said paperwork has been filed in Alderwood County Superior Court for an injunction on the project. According to Alderwood County Superior Court officials, Albert DeAtley filed a petition for review for an injunction Feb. 17. If an injunction is granted, it could potentially stop work on the site. A hearing date has been set for April 2"}
{"Id":"1101243249513","Title":"Blanket primary eliminated in Washington state","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"2/24/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"Monday, the U.S. Supreme Court declined to review a Ninth Circuit Court decision that declared Washington state's blanket primary unconstitutional. Because the Ninth Circuit Court decision wasn't over-ruled yesterday, Washington state must now change the primary election process it has used for nearly 70 years. State voters have been allowed to vote for whichever candidate they wanted, regardless of political affiliation or political seat sought by a candidate. The appeal to the blanket primary ruling had been filed by Washington Secretary of State Sam Reed, a firm believer in the long standing blanket primary that allows voters to cast their ballots according to conscience and belief, rather than tradition or political history. Because Reed's petition was denied by the U.S. Supreme Court, the state legislature must now come up with an alternative to the blanket primary. The U.S. Supreme Court's decision to not review the case pleased the state's GOP leadership. State Republican Party Chairman Chris Vance said the GOP will continue to work with Gov. Gary Locke and the legislature to craft an open primary law \"...that respects the civil rights of the members of Washington's political parties and encourages maximum voter participation in the nomination of our candidates.\" But not all parties in Washington state were pleased that the appeal to the ruling striking down the state's blanket primary wasn't considered by the U.S. Supreme Court. Washington State Grange members, who along with the AFL-CIO and other groups started the blanket primary back in 1934 with a proposed initiative to the state legislature, voiced its displeasure. \"We feel that the appellate courts have overlooked significant differences between the primary statutes in California and those in Washington state,\" said State Grange President Terry Hunt. \"But we're not unprepared,\" said Hunt. \"We've also been talking with legislators and letting them know that they don't have to give the political parties control over the primary in this state.\" Hunt explained that the legislature can adopt a \"qualifying primary,\" in which the top two candidates, regardless of party, move to the general election. He said candidates for state office and the legislature could still have their party preferences designated on the ballot. Voters would be able to vote for any candidate for each office, said Hunt, as they have for 70 years under the blanket primary. \"We believe this will hold up to any constitutional attacks the political parties try to hit us with through the courts,\" explained Hunt. \"We're not about to turn over control of the election process to the (political) parties. If the legislature, for any reason, is unable to come to a consensus about changing the primary, we're prepared to move forward with our initiative,\" Hunt said. The \"People's Choice\" initiative (I-872) was filed by the Washington State Grange in January, and would implement a \"top two\" primary in which voters would not be required to declare party affiliation at any stage in the election process. In learning the U.S. Supreme Court had decided not to hear Reed's appeal, the Washington State Senate Republican caucus announced yesterday afternoon it will work quickly to restore the state's primary election system. \"Today, we are at an historical crossroad as the legislature looks for an alternative to the blanket primary,\" said Sen. Pam Roach (R-Auburn), chair of the Senate Government Operations and Elections Committee. \"Legislators are uniquely positioned for this upcoming debate. We know what the people want and we know what the court demands"}
{"Id":"1101243249779","Title":"G'view kids helping choose park toys","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"2/23/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"GRANDVIEW - When it comes to making decisions for the City of Grandview, the local city council usually takes the reigns. However, Thursday afternoon a different approach was taken to decision making in Grandview. Grandview Parks and Recreation Director Mike Carpenter, along with Parks and Recreation Deputy Director Gretchen Chronis and other members of the local playground committee, split up and took the decision making process to the schools. \"We need your help,\" Chronis told a group of third grade students Thursday afternoon. The Parks and Recreation Department is looking to the children of the community to help decide which of three different playground structures should be built at Grandview's 28-acre Dykstra Park. Funding for the construction of the playground structure is coming from a variety of sources, including donations from several different service clubs and private groups. The bulk of the funding for the project came in the form of a grant from the Alderwood County Rural Enterprise Community, which awarded the Grandview Parks and Recreation Department 30,000 for the project. Carpenter said an additional 10,000 was donated to the project from an anonymous donor. Chronis explained the entire process to Leslie Charvet's third grade class at Arthur H. Jones Elementary School by telling the 8 and 9-year olds that the city had received a large amount of money and wanted to do something wonderful with it. \"Here's where we need your help,\" Chronis told them. As Carpenter handed the students voting ballots, Chronis took time to talk to them about the three options the city is looking at for the playground structure. Reading off descriptions that included monster slides, rock climbers, play storefronts, talking tubes, suspension bridges, spiral slides and climbing poles, Chronis instantly grabbed the attention of every student. After talking to them about each structure, she asked the students to close their eyes and try to imagine what each one would look like. \"They are all wonderful,\" Chronis told the students, explaining that when it came time to cast their vote for a playground structure they should be thinking about what activities they like to do and which structure they thought would be the most enjoyable. Then each student was allowed to cast their vote for their favorite structure. \"We can assure you that one of these is going to come to Grandview,\" Chronis said. Carpenter said the playground structure that proves to be most popular is scheduled to be installed in the park this spring, before schools let out for the summer. Voting on the three structures will continue through Friday, Feb. 27. Anyone interested in taking a closer look at the three playground options or voting on their favorite can do so at Grandview City Hall or the Grandview Parks and Recreation office, where descriptions and diagrams of the three structures are on display. . Ellie Olmsen can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or e-mail her at eolmstead@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101243250013","Title":"State Senate wants mad cow disease tests for live animals","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"2/19/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"OLYMPIA - The Washington State Senate this past Tuesday adopted Joint Memorial 8050, asking the federal government to give Washington State University money to develop a mad cow disease test that can be used on live animals. Mad cow disease is the common name for bovine spongiform encephalopathy (BSE). \"Sheep can contract a similar disease called scrapie, and a live test for sheep was first developed by WSU,\" said Sen. Larry Sheahan (R-Spokane). \"WSU has the knowledge, the technology and the ability to develop a test for BSE. \"With a live test, we can save disease-free animals from being slaughtered. \"The federal government is looking at providing additional money for BSE research, and this memorial asks the government to consider WSU,\" Sheahan said. The memorial adopted by the state senate requests federal funding to build a WSU-certified facility to create a live BSE test. In addition, it would create a WSU testing facility for BSE. Currently, the nearest facility to test animals for BSE is in Ames, Iowa. The memorial passed on a vote of 48-0. \"We have a great opportunity before us,\" Sheahan said. \"We can develop a test that will save thousands of animals and protect ranchers, and we can build a mad cow testing facility here in Washington. \"WSU is on the cutting edge of research. We need to take advantage of it,\" Sheahan added"}
{"Id":"1101243250247","Title":"Grandview City Council Briefs","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"2/19/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"1-Column Council discusses mission statement and priorities GRANDVIEW - Grandview City Council members took part in their annual retreat last week, taking time to sit together and review the city's mission statement and priorities. Last night (Tuesday), Council members took time to revisit the work they did during the retreat, looking back over the priorities they had created. The list of priorities includes everything from continuing aggressive economic development efforts to revising the plan for an aquatic center in Grandview and re-submitting it to voters. Council approves changes to well GRANDVIEW - Jeff Louman of Huibregtse, Louman Associates, Inc., talked to Council members Tuesday night about changes to the city's well seven project. Louman said the original plan for the project was to drill a well to replace well seven, which traditionally has high nitrate levels and only pumps at 190 gallons a minute. The water rights for the well is for 325 gallons a minute. Louman said in drilling the new well a water supply was found with lower nitrate levels. However, the new well only has a pumping capacity of 80 gallons per minute. He also noted that it has been discovered that by raising the pump in the old well, its capacity was increased up to the water rights level of 325 gallons a minute. Louman suggested to Council that water from the new well be blended with water from the original well to lower nitrate levels and maximize the city's water right"}
{"Id":"1101243250482","Title":"Voters being asked to maintain Alderwood's quality of life","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"2/18/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"A library is an important piece of any community. It serves as a place to gather information, peruse different magazines and newspapers, offers a wide selection of reading materials and can also be a site from which to search for your favorite musical group on the internet. According to Alderwood Valley Regional Library Director Monica Weyhe, libraries play such an important role in a community that realtors often include information on libraries, alongside information on public schools when talking to perspective home buyers. \"It brings a quality of life to the community,\" Weyhe said. That quality of life in Alderwood is currently being threatened. Voters are being asked to approve a ballot measure on March 9 that if approved, will annex the local library into the Alderwood Valley Regional Library system. A yes vote, in effect, will keep the doors to the local library open. The Alderwood Public Library currently contracts with the Alderwood Valley Regional Library for library services and materials. The City of Alderwood owns the library building. But, it is the regional library system that provides staff members, computers and other materials, such as the summer reading program, for the local site. The city currently pays 115,000 annually to the Alderwood Valley Regional Library for its services. If the annexation proposal passes it will go into effect January 2005, and the regional library will reduce the annual fee for 2004 to 65,000, which is the amount set aside for the library in the city's 2004 budget. However, it costs more than the annual fee of 115,000 a year to operate the Alderwood library. According to Alderwood Valley Regional Library officials, in 2004 it will cost approximately 369,825 to operate the local library, which includes the cost of staff members, supplies and children's services. Besides the 115,000 paid by the city, much of the money to operate the Alderwood Public Library is collected from people living in the unincorporated areas of Alderwood County, whose residents pay 49.6 per 1,000 of assessed property value. Other local communities that have annexed into and are now part of the Rural Library District include Toppenish, Wapato, Zillah, Harrah and Moxee. The communities of Buena, Nile, Terrace Heights and White Swan are part of the Rural Library District because they are located in the unincorporated areas of Alderwood County. Weyhe explained that just outside the Alderwood city limits county residents are already paying the Rural Library District rate of 49.6 per 1,000 of assessed property value. This is the rate Alderwood city residents will pay if voters approve the annexation of the Alderwood Public Library into the Alderwood Valley Regional Library system on March 9. \"Your neighbors are already paying at the library levy rate,\" Weyhe said. She said the annexation will give the Alderwood library a more stable source of funding, as well as provide for some improvements to the local facility. She said upon the annexation of the Alderwood library, there will likely be more funds available to put into things such as the library's infrastructure, books and other services the local facility offers. Currently, the library serves 2,437 people who have been issued library cards, and offers services ranging from internet access to research assistance. The Alderwood facility offers a vast collection of fiction and non-fiction books for the entire family, as well as large print and Spanish language selections. Kay Saunders, Alderwood librarian, said the local facility also offers a variety of services, including internet classes in English and Spanish, story time for small children, a summer reading program for all ages, books on tape and CD, as well as musical cassettes and CDs and movies, both fiction and non-fiction for all ages. Saunders said the local library also offers those who visit a chance to glance through an array of newspapers and magazines, as well as a chance to seek help from five library staff members. \"They are a rich source of local information,\" Saunders said. For local resident Pat Kezele, Friends of the Library chairman, having access to a library facility like the one offered in Alderwood is important. She said libraries are public places that are used by everyone, no matter their age. \"The public library is for all ages,\" Weyhe said. Weyhe explained that the Alderwood Public Library was founded in 1911 with a Carnegie Grant. She said the reason Andrew Carnegie set up the grants was because he felt libraries were the \"people's university.\" \"I have always felt it was a community building,\" said Alderwood resident Bettie Siliano during a recent meeting of the Friends of the Library Committee. \"Can you imagine the community without the library?\" asked Bettie's husband, Frank Siliano. For Beatrice and Jose A. Villanueva, who live next door to the library, having the facility in such close proximity was a perk while they raised their children. \"It was nice for them to go over and do their homework at the library,\" Beatrice said. The Villanuevas, Silianos and Kezele make up a group of approximately 35 committee members who are working to distribute information about the upcoming annexation election. Weyhe said in order for the annexation measure to pass it must be approved by voters with a simple majority, which means 50 percent plus one person. Kezele explained that if the ballot measure does not pass, Alderwood residents will lose access to library services. \"People in the city will not be able to get a regional card,\" Kezele said. Weyhe said if voters do not approve the annexation there will not be enough tax base to continue operation of the Alderwood library. She said at a cost of 49.6 per 1,000 of assessed property value, a person with a 100,000 home will pay 49.60 a year to the Rural Library District. She said if the ballot measure passes that equals out to roughly 4 a month. \"I hope that they will see the value in that,\" Weyhe said. She said the Alderwood library is considered the regional library center of the Lower Valley. \"It's really an important center,\" Weyhe said. \"It's hard to think about such a busy regional center closing.\" Alderwood residents will have a chance to voice their opinion on the library annexation Tuesday, March 9, in the special election. Those residents voting absentee must mail in their ballot between Feb. 18 and March 9"}
{"Id":"1101243270310","Title":"School board advances plans to build new school","Author":"Jamie Smart","Time":"2/18/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"The voters have given their approval, the land has been purchased and a plan has been formed for constructing a new middle school in north Alderwood to ease the growing public school population. With that work completed, the Alderwood School Board met Tuesday morning to approve a resolution to seek new school construction project approval from the state Office of the Superintendent of Public Instruction. The Alderwood School Board also approved an application seeking low interest rates from the state, as the district moves forward with the sale of 11 million in bonds later this year. \"We are moving ahead as quickly as possible to ensure we can get the lowest interest rates possible for our bonds,\" explained Dave Plesha, Alderwood School District executive director of finance. Plesha said the bond sale, which will be handled by John Gores of Seattle-Northwest Securities Corp., will move ahead once the state gives it approval for the project. Tuesday's special board meeting was the first step towards the completion of a new middle school on a portion of the 57 acres of district land located along Washout Road, just to the north of Alderwood Christian High School. With the state's approval of the construction project, as well as its assurance of low interest rates for the bonds, the district will be on the road to building the new school as early as mid-2005, Plesha said. \"Once the state is assured we have the money to begin construction, it will match our efforts, \" he said. The district hopes to transform the 11 million bond, passed by Alderwood voters with a 62.97 percent approval rating, into 40 million for new projects, Plesha explained. Alderwood School District administrators encouraged the board to approve the state applications as quickly as possible based on the current low interest rates. \"This is a presidential election year and while the interest rates are low now, that could change,\" Plesha explained. Moving quickly now through the preliminary processes may also ensure the district will be able to get low bids next year when the construction is scheduled to begin. Plesha said the district may be able to open bids on the district's new middle school by February 2005"}
{"Id":"1101243270826","Title":"Briefs","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"2/17/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"1-Column Presidential address to be heard by members of Nouvella Club An oration on the trials and tribulations, as well as the successes, of past American presidents will be presented by Dr. Jack Hale at this week's Nouvella Club meeting. Hale will serve as guest speaker at the women's club meeting, scheduled for noon this coming Thursday at the Fairway Restaurant. Men s slo-pitch meeting on tap The Lower Valley Men's Slo-pitch Association will hold an organizational meeting next Tuesday, Feb. 24, at Chompi's Sports Bar in Alderwood. All teams interested in playing organized men's softball this coming summer are invited to attend the 6 p.m. meeting. New legislation would open venues to challenge rules OLYMPIA - The Washington State Senate voted 48-1 last week in approving Senate Bill 6491, which opens up the state's superior courts in four counties to citizens wishing to challenge government rules and regulations. \"The bill provides a more equal access to justice,\" said Sen. Pam Roach (R-Auburn), the prime sponsor of the legislation. \"In the past individuals challenging administrative rules could only do so in Thurston County,\" Roach said. \"Many citizens had to travel for hours and at great expense because they were paying for not only their travel, but that of their attorneys. \"When the bill is signed, people in Spokane, Yakima and Bellingham can have access to their local superior courts,\" Roach said. She added that Gov. Gary Locke has indicated that he will sign the bill"}
{"Id":"1101243271326","Title":"WASL changes on the horizon","Author":"Jamie Smart","Time":"2/17/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"From the state Office of the Superintendent of Public Instruction to local school districts, changes are being discussed concerning the Washington State Assessment of Student Learning (WASLs) exams. Superintendent of Public Instruction Dr. Terry Bergeson is hesitant to drop off the listening component of the WASL, feeling it is still an important part of students' learning assessments, say local school officials. The listening portion is expected to be omitted from the WASL in the coming year, with more emphasis placed on the reading and math portions of the WASL test. As part of President's Bush's \"No Child Left Behind\" efforts, the state government has elected to drop the listening portion of its WASL, while increasing the number of times students are now tested. But like Bergeson, local educators feel more attention needs to be paid to the reading and math portions of the WASL's while retaining the listening portion of the test, according to Deannie Dunbar, Alderwood School District's executive director of instruction and learning. \"Listening, which makes up 25 percent of the WASL, is still an important part of many of our students' assessments,\" Dunbar said. Currently, students are given the WASL in fourth, eighth and tenth grades, with tenth graders expected to pass a certificate of mastery in order to graduate. The certificate becomes mandated with the class of 2008. The WASL currently is comprised of a series of criterion-reference tests in reading, writing, listening and mathematics at fourth, seventh and 10th grade levels. In addition, state lawmakers are now considering revamping portions of the state mandated certificate of mastery being required of the state's tenth graders prior to graduation. A bill has been introduced in the House of Representatives, which is expected to offer a variety of alternative testing to students who have difficulties passing the comprehensive achievement test. In other WASL changes coming down the line, science becomes a part of the WASL this year. Alderwood School District fifth graders will be a part of the field testing this year, said Dunbar. \"We are only in the pilot stage of that portion of the test,\" Dunbar said, noting it will be become required at the eighth and tenth grade levels in the near future. The state standard-based assessment incorporates three items: selected response (multiple choice); short constructed response; and extended constructed response, Dunbar explained. Performance standards for the assessments in reading, writing, listening and mathematics have been set using an item mapping technique that developed by textbook researchers, according to Bergeson's office. Meanwhile, listening which was originally made a part of the WASL as one of the basic communication skills, is still needed in order to show how children interpret information, stressed Dunbar. \"We need to know our students, many of whom have language issues, are hearing curriculum information accurately,\" Dunbar explained. Meanwhile, other changes are coming to the classroom. Among those will be the federal government's requirement that all children in third through eighth grades will be tested every year. Dunbar explained the new tests, like the WASLs, will ask students to demonstrate both their factual knowledge and critical thinking abilities. She said the new grade level testing program is one more result of the \"No Child Left Behind\" legislation. \"The federal government wants children tested regularly and early, allowing for earlier intervention,\" Dunbar explained. The Alderwood School District is now in the process of being approved as a pilot program for the No Child Left Behind grade level testing. \"We should know by March 1 if our request to be a part of the federal learning pilot is approved,\" Dunbar said. \"We're hopeful we will be approved for the program,\" she said. Meanwhile, the debate about the 10th grade mastery requirement goes on in Olympia. The state legislature is in the process of suggesting several changes to the state's 10th grade certificate of academic achievement, which mandates that all high school sophomores show competency in reading, math, writing and in science. Last week, the House of Representatives approved the 3ESHB 2195 (Third Engrossed Substitute House Bill 2195), which seeks to amend the 10th grade standard, offering a broader variety of options for students who are unable to pass the test the first or second time around. The bill proposes to give students more than one way to take the test, which is currently a written test. The lawmakers also are seeking to offer bilingual students other methods of taking the test in order to show their mastery of required subject matters. Under the new house bill, students would also be given means, other than written responses for taking the test if needed. The proposed legislation continues to require the certificate of achievement for graduation from public high school, but it stipulates tat it need not be the only requirement for graduation. The bill now goes to the Senate Education Committee with a hearing set for Feb. 20. Lawmakers are not changing the requirements of the certificate of achievement, explained Ruben Carerra, Alderwood School District executive director of schools and community resources. \"They are just seeking to give our bilingual students and those students with learning difficulties different options for proving they have learned the required materials,\" Carerra said"}
{"Id":"1101243271654","Title":"PRIDE High teacher demonstrates commitment by shaving off his hair","Author":"Jamie Smart","Time":"2/16/2002","Tag":null,"Content":" by Jamie Smart It's the kind of love story that reminds a person of O'Henry's \"Gift of the Magi,\" a story about a couple's sacrifices to please one another. Tom Shaffer is finding he is not as committed to having a full head of hair as he once was. A PRIDE High School teacher, he gave up his hair as a gesture of love. A personal development teacher, Shaffer talks about setting goals and making commitments every day to his students. To prove his point, this past Wednesday Shaffer demonstrated what he means by commitment. This past October Shaffer's wife, Dori, was diagnosed with an aggressive form of breast cancer. She is fighting the cancer with rounds of chemotherapy and radiation treatments. \"We always agreed to support each other no matter what, in sickness and health,\" said Shaffer. So when his wife started losing her hair to the heavy doses of chemotherapy, Shaffer felt he needed to demonstrate his love and support in a very visible fashion. So Shaffer, as a real life example of solidarity, sat in the front of his classroom for a session in the barber chair. His head of curly gray hair quickly gave way to a smooth, shiny crown. Shaffer said his wife, who just finished her first round of chemotherapy sessions, will undergo treatment through July. The couple, who have been together 12 years, are finding that a lot of things have changed since her illness. \"I'm finding myself doing a lot more chores while taking care of her,\" Shaffer said. \"I plan to keep my head shaved until Dori's hair all comes back,\" said the devoted husband. While wife Dori isn't very fond of her hair loss, Shaffer said he likes his new look. \"Dori can't wait for her hair to grow back, but I think I may keep my bald head. It sure is easy to take care of,\" he laughed. . Jamie Smart can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or you can e-mail her at jhart@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101243271888","Title":"Alderwood police, WSP seek 'most wanted","Author":"Melissa Browning","Time":"2/16/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"With new technology available to law enforcement officers, the Washington State Patrol has launched a link to their website dedicated to the agency's \"most wanted.\" The website lists 23 of the most wanted people in Washington state, who are believed to have been involved in vehicular homicides, hit-and-runs and vehicular assaults. In 2003 alone the WSP investigated 178 felony collisions state-wide. Of the 178 collisions, 45 were vehicular homicides where one or more citizens died as a result of someone else driving drunk, according to Capt. Brian Ursino of the Washington State Patrol Criminal Investigation Division. One hundred and two were vehicular assaults in which citizens were seriously injured due to someone else driving drunk, and 21 were felony hit-and run collisions where persons were injured and the suspects left the scene. \"We are seeking help from the public to find these people who have fled police and have left numerous families with pain, loss and grief,\" said Ursino. Cases stem back to 1993. Recently, two persons listed on the WSP's most wanted were arrested. Armondo Posadas Hernandez was arrested in Denver, Col. and is being returned to Yakima, where he faces charges of vehicular assault. Hernandez is believed to have caused a two-vehicle accident at the intersection of Lateral 1 and Lateral C roads in the Lower Valley Aug. 23, 1997. Both Hernandez's passenger and an occupant in the other vehicle were seriously injured, according to the WSP. This month Jacquelyn Kay Jim turned herself into Walla Walla County Jail authorities. She was arrested a year to the date of a one-vehicle collision on State Route 124 that seriously injured her passenger. A warrant was issued for her arrest regarding a vehicular assault charge. Four men are still being sought by the Washington State Patrol for cases originating in the Alderwood Valley. They are Gregorio Rios-Gonzalez, Rigoberto Serrano Martinez, Alejandro Sanchez Flores and Gerardo Angel Figueroa. Rios-Gonzalez, 22, who was last known to live in Toppenish, is wanted by the WSP for vehicular homicide. The suspect was allegedly driving eastbound on Lateral 1 Road when he ran a stop sign at Lateral A and struck another vehicle. His passenger died in the accident. WSP officials determined that Rios-Gonzalez was drinking at the time of the crash. Martinez, who was last known to be living in the Yakima area, is also wanted for vehicular homicide. In July 1999, Martinez had been drinking when he was involved in a one-vehicle rollover on State Route 24, according to the WSP. His passenger died as a result of injuries. The suspect, who has identifying scars on his head and face, was also seriously injured. He fled after being released from the hospital. Alejandro Sanchez Flores, 32, of Newburgh, NY, was involved in a motor vehicle accident October of 1994 on I-82 near milepost 39. The suspect had been drinking, according to WSP officials. His passenger was seriously injured and Flores fled after his court appearance. Figueroa, 42, of Zillah, was involved in an all-terrain vehicle fatality collision Aug. 17, 1992. The wreck happened on Thacker Road near Granger. Investigators determined the suspect had been drinking and Figueroa fled during the investigation. He is wanted for vehicular homicide. The Alderwood Police Department also has a most wanted list of its own. On the list are suspects the department has been unable to locate, many of which have failed to appear for court or comply with the court's ruling, according to officials. Alderwood resident Adrian Arce, 21, is wanted by the Alderwood police for his alleged involvement in an unattended hit and run accident, which has three counts of failure to appear and failure to comply tacked onto it. He is also wanted for failure to appear or comply with court rulings on cases of malicious mischief as well as for driving under the influence and first degree driving while license suspended. 39-year-old Fernando Rodriguez has five warrants for his arrest issued by the Alderwood Municipal Court. Rodriguez is wanted for four counts of failure to pay a fine on third degree driving while license suspended charges. He is also being sought for failing to pay a fine on a third degree theft charge. Carlos Martinez, 21, who was last known to live in the Alderwood area, has warrants for his arrest on failure to appear in court and failure to pay a fine on charges of violation of a no-contact order, giving false and misleading statements to police, fourth degree domestic violence assault and two counts of third degree escape. Ramon P. Martinez, 22, of Alderwood is wanted for failure to comply with court orders on a charge of third degree driving while license suspended and a failure to pay a fine for a charge of minor in possession and/or consumption of alcohol. Martinez is also being sought on charges of possession of marijuana, disorderly conduct, minor in possession and/or consumption of alcohol and third degree driving while license suspended. Gilbert Vela Peralez, 34, last known to live in Alderwood, is being sought on warrants for domestic violence, violation of a no contact order and third degree malicious mischief. He is also wanted for two counts of fourth degree domestic violence assault, four counts of violation of a no contact order and possession of marijuana. Veronica M. Fuentes, 22, is wanted on three charges of minor in possession and/or consumption of alcohol, obstructing a law enforcement officer and fourth degree assault. Luciano Cortez, 22, last known to have lived in Alderwood, is wanted for failing to appear in court on charges of resisting arrest, possession of marijuana, fourth degree domestic violence assault and second degree driving while license suspended. He is also wanted for failure to appear and failure to pay a court fine on a charge of possession and/or consumption of alcohol. Cortez is also wanted on two counts of first degree driving while license suspended and operating a motor vehicle without an ignition lock. Allen Ray Wilcowski, 25, is being sought by local police on charges of fourth degree domestic violence assault and violation of a no contact order. Humberto Miranda Linares, 25, has warrants for his arrest on charges of failure to appear in court for a driving while under the influence hit and run charge and a separate charge of driving under the influence. Those wanting information on the WSP's \"most wanted\" list can find the listing by going to the Washington State Patrol website, www.wsp.wa.gov or by accessing the website directly at www.wsp.wa.gov/crime/wanted.html. The website features information on the suspect, photos, distinguishing marks or tattoos and their last known address"}
{"Id":"1101243272122","Title":"Lady 'Hounds head into postseason","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"2/16/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"The Grandview High School Lady Greyhounds may have had a tough weekend, but in the end the team was able to finish with a third place finish in the Mid-Valley League going into the postseason. The Lady 'Hounds lost to Ellensburg Friday night 59-46, but rallied back Saturday against Selah, finishing with a 56-38 victory. Grandview coach Adolfo Hinojosa said the difference between Friday and Saturday came in the form of added pressure. \"We picked up our pressure on defense,\" Hinojosa said, noting the Lady 'Hounds also introduced a new defensive set against the Lady Vikings. He said it's a defense he hopes the team will be able to put to use during postseason action. Hinojosa said the team worked hard against Selah to create turnovers, which the team was then able to turn into several easy lay-ups. Leading the scoring efforts for the Grandview team Saturday night was Danelle Cowan with 15 points and 12 rebounds. Hinojosa explained that most of those stats were racked up in the first half of the match-up. Also scoring for the Lady 'Hounds were Jessica Rodriguez with 13 points, and Meghan Waddle and Anastasia Andrews with 8 points each. On the offensive side of the game, Hinojosa said the Lady 'Hounds did a good job of moving the ball around against Selah. However, the night before against Ellensburg, things were a little different. \"Friday was a war,\" Hinojosa said, noting that the score was close throughout the game. In the first half the Lady 'Hounds were able to keep up with the Lady Bulldogs, but when the second half started the Grandview team couldn't get its momentum going again. Hinojosa said the Lady Bulldogs were able to break Grandview's half court defense. \"We were just not communicating on defense,\" Hinojosa said. He noted the Lady 'Hounds did do a good job Friday night of running the court. However, he said the team didn't take advantage of several opportunities. Hinojosa said Andrews did a good job for the Lady 'Hounds Friday night, scoring 12 points for the team. \"She played one of her best games this year,\" Hinojosa said. \"She really set the tone for our defensive pressure.\" Also scoring for the Lady Greyhounds were Rodriguez with 15 points, Keitha Robertson with 8 points and Waddle with 5 points. The Lady 'Hounds will play their first postseason game Tuesday night against Alderwood, with the winner moving on to play Friday night. . Ellie Olmsen can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or e-mail her at eolmstead@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101243272357","Title":"Alderwood County Briefs","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"2/13/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"1-Column REC meeting set for Feb. 24 The Lower Alderwood Valley Rural Enterprise Community will meet Tuesday, Feb. 24, at 6:45 p.m. in the Port of Alderwood conference room. The Port of Alderwood office is located at 520 S. Seventh St. County seeks district court judge applicants Alderwood County commissioners are seeking applicants for the position of Alderwood County District Court Judge. Those interested in the position must be registered voters of Alderwood County and admitted to practice law in the state of Washington. According to county commissioners, the Alderwood County Bar Association will conduct an intitial review and ranking of applications. Following the Bar's screening, the top applicants will be interviewed by the Board of County Commissioners in March, with the successful appointee taking office as soon as possible thereafter. The appointee will have to stand for election in November 2004 to complete the remainder of the term. Interested applicants are asked to submit a resume and statement of qualification, which includes the applicant's experience working with District Court (300 words maximum). Completed applications should be sent directly to Abeyta-Nelson, Attn: Rod Nelson, 1102 W. Yakima Ave., Yakima, WA 98902 or via email to rnelson@abeytanelson.com or rarcher@abeytanelson.com. Applications must be received by no later than noon on Friday, Feb. 27. For more informtion contact the Alderwood County Commissioner's office at (509) 574-1500"}
{"Id":"1101243292123","Title":"New Gospel album combines Motown savvy with street ministry jive","Author":"Jamie Smart","Time":"2/13/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"Perhaps it's no accident that only those who make it in the music world are related to someone else who's in the producing end. But occasionally complete unknowns have been known to walk in off the street to grab the brass ring of fame. Such may be the case for the four young singers who have combined their talents to produce a new gospel CD as the group known as \"Ramiyah,\" (pronounced Rah-my-yah). Ramiyah's album was produced by Mathew Knowles, the father of the new queen of pop, Beyonc Knowles. It is loaded with much of the same sound familiar to her fans. One of the songs on the album, \"Power from God,\" was written by solo singer-songwriter Solange Knowles, Beyonc 's 16-year-old sister. The four girls who comprise Ramiyah met during an audition just a year ago. The album of the same name is their first professional effort. I admit they have got a certain hip hop appeal, but I found it hard to understand their singing. However, I did enjoy the blending of voices, finding the sound to be silky smooth. Ramiyah's solo 17-track album includes ballads and anthems to their Lord, packed with a passion and a sense of sincerity. Tracks on the album I enjoyed included \"The Reason\" and \"Waiting.\" The songs all deal with fighting temptation and calling on the Lord for guidance and strength. This album will make great listening for young Christian music fans. I give this album my 14-year-old granddaughter's thumb's vote, which is probably equal to three stars anywhere else. . Jamie Smart can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or you can e-mail her at jhart@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101243292404","Title":"Forum","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"2/13/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"1-Column Alderwood library annexation vote Have you ever stopped to think what a library can do for you? If you don't have a computer or you are between computers, you can go to the library and use one. Interested in other free entertainment? Try renting one of their movies or DVDs, as well as checking out a book. In addition, the staff can help you answer all sorts of factual questions, from books on what to name your next baby to tips on repairing your car. What would you do if you couldn't have any of these opportunities any more? If the citizens of Alderwood vote YES, either by mail or at the polls on March 9, in favor of annexing the library to the Alderwood County Regional Library system, these services will continue. If there are enough NO votes, it's highly likely these services will not. For the last 40 years the city has contracted with the Regional system to have library services by budgeting a certain amount every year. However, the City of Alderwood, because of economic reasons, could not maintain the level of contractual obligation for 2004, and thus budgeted half of what they have before, which is a quarter of the cost to the Regional system of maintaining it. The Regional system cannot keep the library going on this current level of funding. If the citizens vote no, the city has no contingency plans to keep the current level of library services going. Also, if we vote no, we cannot use our current cards at other libraries in the system, because we are not investing in those services. Annexing to the system will increase our tax levy from 25 per 1,000 of valuation, which you had been paying before this year, to 49.6 per year. This amount to 4.30 per month for a 100,000 home. Toppenish and Zillah have both voted in this tax levy to save their libraries. Do you want the library you've grown accustomed to? Do you want your kids to have a safe place to go to play on the computer, to read or play checkers with friends? Then vote YES. You most likely won't have the opportunities if you vote no. /s/ Joanna Luft, Alderwood JUICE The feature on your entertainment pages (Jan. 30) on the hip hop/rap artist JUICE may have been instrumental in the success of his show last Friday, Feb. 6, at Mario's in Zillah. The show was unbelievable...and crowded. The variety of performers was great and JUICE as the headliner was phenomenal. The excitement level from the crowd was unmatched by any other show he's done. Thank you for supporting local talent. Fans can look forward to seeing more of JUICE in the near future. His full CD will be available at all of his coming performances and out in stores soon. /s/ Mike Burns, JUICE Street Team, Alderwood"}
{"Id":"1101243292638","Title":"Grandview police chief retires, but not for long","Author":"John Panni","Time":"2/13/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"One of the most respected police officers in the state has joined the ranks of the retired. Grandview Police Chief Dave Charvet retired from his job on Jan. 15 of this year, but his retirement didn't last long as he was hired back the same day. Charvet, 51, retired from his 31-year law enforcement career with the City of Grandview at the beginning of the year due in part to the state retirement system. City Administrator Jim Sewell explained that Charvet's retirement is completely different than the retire/rehire state program that gained notoriety over the last couple of years in the state education system. Sewell said Charvet falls under a specific retirement program for law enforcement officers. Sewell said there are a number of different regulations governing each state retirement plan that would provide a vast, indepth explanation because they are so comprehensive. \"The rules are different for everyone,\" said Sewell. Sewell said the program allows a law enforcement officer to retire after 30 years without losing any benefits the particular officer has paid into his/her retirement. The difference between the law enforcement retire/rehire program and the one being commonly utilized by the education system is that Charvet is not required to be away from his job for a 30-day period. Sewell said under the law enforcement program, Charvet was allowed to tender his retirement notice to the city and then be rehired immediately. The major change concerning the Grandview police chief is that Charvet will only be able to work 150 hours a month, instead of the 160 hours in a normal work month. \"Dave will work a couple of hours less each week than he did before,\" said Sewell. Sewell also wanted to iron out some other areas of clarification concerning Charvet's retirement. In the City of Grandview, the Mayor, Mike Bren, has the power to make appointments to positions such as police chief. Even under the state provisions concerning the retirement program, the city was not required to publicly post Charvet's position, as is required in the field of education, because it is not a position protected by a union. Sewell also pointed out that technically Charvet never resigned his position, he just retired. \"The position never did become vacant,\" said Sewell. \"Dave continued in the position. The hours he can work were the only thing changed.\" Charvet, whose career spans 31 years with the Grandview Police Department, became police chief on April 3, 1984. His current rate of pay is 4,666 per month. Sewell said the City of Grandview will actually save about 20,000 per year in salaries, benefits and other expenses with having Charvet employed as chief in this manner. \"It is a win-win situation for both sides,\" said Sewell. Sewell said he was in favor of keeping Charvet on because having such an experienced and respected officer on staff will only be a benefit to the city and the residents of Grandview. \"Dave is one of the most respected police chiefs in the state,\" said Sewell. Mayor Bren expressed much of the same reasoning as Sewell for wanting to keep Charvet on staff. Bren said Charvet was actually approached by another employer with a job offer, but opted to stay with the city. Bren said Charvet at 51 was being hurt by the retirement system because he has put his years in on the job, but is still young enough where he can't afford to retire. Bren said he feels the city was fortunate to be able to retain Charvet and wants to assure the citizens they will still have full access to their police chief. \"We aren't going to see any changes (in the way the police department is ran) in the City of Grandview,\" said Bren. \"With the experience and knowledge Dave has I think we are very fortunate to be able to retain him. \"We believe Dave has just done an excellent job as police chief,\" added Bren. . John Panni can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or email him at mPanni@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101243292873","Title":"Starlings dropping like flies","Author":"Melissa Browning","Time":"2/13/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"The colder the winter the higher the number of starlings that visit the feedlots and dairy operations to fill their bellies on the best picks of grain for the cows, according to Roger Woodruff, state director of the United States Department of Agriculture. In one Alderwood feedlot operation, Woodruff said there have been up to 100,000 starlings. The birds not only eat the feed, they also compete for food and nesting sights with other cavity nesting birds, including blue birds and woodpeckers, and they also cause millions of dollars in damages to the fruit industry, said Woodruff. \"Starlings have a tremendous capability for reproduction,\" he said. \"They can produce three broods per year and have three to five young per brood.\" To help control the birds, which are European Starlings and not native to the United States, Woodruff said the USDA contracts with feed operations to bait the birds with an avicide called DRC 1339. Woodruff said that he could not legally identify the feedlot where the birds have been baited. The chemical, which was described by Woodruff as \"very selective,\" was developed several years ago and has virtually no secondary hazards to other animals when used properly. \"It's primarily used in the winter time when birds come to the feedlots to feed,\" he said. The starlings migrate out of Canada and feed across Washington state. In the baiting process, the birds are poisoned at the feedlots and die within 24 hours. \"This toxicant is called fast-acting. Typically most birds, once they've ingested this, they'll die on the roost,\" said Woodruff. \"They pretty much go to sleep and don't wake up.\" The problem is many of the birds root in trees along Mabton-Alderwood Highway at about milepost #5. Neighbors living along that stretch of road know exactly which years the USDA contracts with local feedlots because they end up with hundreds of dead birds and questions on who to contact to clean them up. Four days after the birds died at his mother's house, Alderwood resident Joe Stearns found the proper people to contact to clean up the dead bird carcasses at his mother's house. His nephew, who lives across the road from his mother, has children and decided to clean up the birds himself, Stearns said. His nephew picked up 475 birds in his yard. As a part of the contract with the USDA, feeding operations are required to send workers out to clean up the dead animals, said Woodruff, but often those living along Mabton-Alderwood Highway don't know who to call. Woodruff said the health department is contacted when the birds are baited and he said in the future there is a possibility that the USDA will also contact home owners in the area where the birds roost and die. Steve ETorchon of Van de Graaf Ranches said that his feedlot operation contracted with the USDA to bait the birds. \"When they come in they're in a swarm,\" he said. \"They're like a small black cloud. It's unbelievable.\" He said the birds eat an incredible amount of feed and leave a mess behind. \"We're doing a public service,\" he said. On dairies and feedlots, the birds can eat up to half their body weight in a day, said Woodruff. \"They can eat tons of feed per day,\" he said, adding that they peck out all of the protein pellets in the feed, which causes beef weight to taper off. For those with dead birds on their property, they can call the USDA district office in Moses Lake to have clean-up crews come and dispose of the dead birds. The district office can be reached at (509) 765-7962. For those who pick up the dead birds themselves, Woodruff suggests they wear gloves and dispose of the animals in trash bags. He said washing up after disposing of the animals is essential. \"I don't encourage people to clean them up, themselves,\" he added. . Melissa Browning can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or e-mail mbrowning@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101243293654","Title":"Alderwood student attends prestigious science academy","Author":"Jamie Smart","Time":"2/12/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"A win at the Washington State Science and Engineering Fair last April has earned Kacee Jo Bootsma yet another opportunity to show off her inquiring mind. The Alderwood High School junior is presenting an abstract of her award-winning project, entitled \"Reduction of Textile Pollution With Natural Products,\" to the American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS) at its national conference being held in Seattle, Feb. 11-14. Bootsma was asked to take part in the Association's American Junior Academy of Science's (AJAS) poster program as a Washington State representative this past September. While attending the junior academy, Bootsma will present a poster featuring the research and conclusions she made while examining dyes, fibers and pollution. As a junior academy delegate, she will give both an oral and a poster presentation before a panel of national science leaders. Her abstracts will be also be included in the 2003 National AAAS Directory Proceedings and Handbook. Bootsma's state championship science project earned her a trip to the International Science and Engineering Fair held in Cleveland, Ohio last May. In addition, she was the winner of a Stockholm Junior Water Prize last spring, an honor which earned her a trip to Dallas, Texas. With more than 138,000 members and 275 affiliated societies, AAAS serves as an authoritative source for information on the latest developments in science, and bridges gaps among scientists, policy-makers and the public to advance science and science education. The group's AJAS is the only national honor society exclusively for high school scientific researchers. Membership is offered to the winners of statewide youth competitions. As an AJAS delegate, Bootsma is among an elite group of teens, selected by scientists from their state or regional scientific organizations and academies to participate in the academy programs. . Jamie Smart can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or you can e-mail her at jhart@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101243293888","Title":"Alderwood school levy, bond issues validated, Granger measure defeated by a single percentage point","Author":"Jamie Smart","Time":"2/12/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"In the final count of special levy and bond issue votes, the Alderwood voters gave the Alderwood School District a narrow 60.9 percent approval for its 1l million bond. According to the latest ballot numbers released by the Alderwood County Election Department, a total of 1,396 \"yes\" ballots were cast while 821 voters said \"no\" to the bond issue. Early numbers showed the measure with a higher approval rate, but the final count of ballots added a few more \"no\" votes to narrow the approval margin. All special levy measures required a 60 percent super majority for passage. Wednesday's count of the remaining absentee ballots gave Alderwood School District's four-year 1.4 million maintenance and operation levy measure an additional 20 \"yes\" votes. The measure received a total of 1,480 \"yes\" votes, for a 64.6 percent approval rate. A total of 787 voters said \"no\" to the levy. The Granger School District's 515,793 special maintenance and operation levy has failed to gain the necessary votes for a 60 percent super majority in the final examination of absentee ballots. The small community's M&O measure only received a 59.09 percent approval. Meanwhile, Mabton School District's 195,000 special levy gained 40 more votes for a total of 241 \"yes\" votes and four new \"no\" votes for a total of 57 negative ballots. The measure, which received 75 percent approval from the Mabton voters on election night, passed with an 80.87 percent approval rate. . Jamie Smart can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or you can e-mail her at jhart@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101243294123","Title":"Friends of the Library prepare for annexation election in Alderwood","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"2/11/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"The fate of the Alderwood library will be decided in a special election set to take place Tuesday, March 9, and a group of volunteers calling themselves the Friends of the Library aren't about to sit idly by and wait to see what the community decides will happen to the annexation proposal. Tuesday night the group devoted time to ensuring everyone in the community is aware of the upcoming library annexation proposition, getting informational mailings ready to send out to Alderwood voters. Bill Flower, one of the volunteers involved in the library group, said there are more than 30 people involved in spreading the word about the upcoming election, including the group's chairman, Pat Kezele. Tuesday night the volunteers, including community members Jose A. and Beatrice Villanueva, as well as Frank and Bettie Siliano, gathered at the Holy Trinity Episcopal Church to get flyers ready to mail out to Alderwood voters. The flyers detail information about the library, including details about its history. The City of Alderwood currently contracts with the Alderwood Valley Regional Library for library services. The upcoming election will determine whether or not the Alderwood Valley Regional Library will completely take over the Alderwood library, not only offering library services, but also taking over day-to-day operations. Monica Weyhe, director of the Alderwood Valley Regional Library, noted if the annexation occurs the regional library will likely put some money into the library's current building, as well as work to purchase more books for the facility. \"It would provide a more stable source of funding,\" Weyhe said. The cost to annex the Alderwood library into the Alderwood Valley Regional Library system will be 49.6 per 1,000 of assessed valuation, which translates to a cost of roughly 4.13 per month for a 100,000 home. Property owners living within the city will pay the tax directly to the rural library district. Weyhe noted it's important to remember that those people living outside the city limits are already paying this tax. . Ellie Olmsen can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or e-mail her at eolmstead@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101243294357","Title":"Local dentist honored for work with low-income children","Author":"Melissa Browning","Time":"2/10/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Walking into the under-sea themed office at Spavinaw Dental Center children are at ease as they prepare to have their teeth checked. Immediately put at ease with the peaceful surroundings, it's the wall of pictures of smiling children that catch the eye of visitors. The wall displays patients who are cavity free. Every one of the pictures is of kids, who have learned good dental health from their friendly dentist, Dr. Gregory Norell, who at 6'5\" has been described as a \"gentle giant\" who uses humor and charisma to charm his young patients. Norell, the owner of the clinic, focuses on children's dental health, which is why he is being honored in Washington D.C. later this month. Norell, 38, will receive the 2004 Plate of Bounty Award at the National Migrant and Seasonal Head Start Conference in Washington D.C. The award will be presented to Norell at the Mexican Embassy. \"The Plate of Bounty award is given each year to the persons in the United States who have made outstanding contributions to their communities and specifically to the Migrant and Seasonal Head Start program,\" said Manda Lopez, executive director of the National Migrant and Seasonal Head Start Association. Since 2001, Norell has been working closely with the Washington State Migrant Council and EPIC (Enterprise for Progress in the Community) Head Start, providing dental check-ups, fluoride and sealants at the Head Start centers from Yakima to Pasco and many communities in the Columbia Basin. Most of the children he serves at the centers are low-income or disabled. \"I love going out to the day cares and the Migrant Council centers,\" he said. \"People are less pretensive.\" Norell said the idea to visit the different Head Start sites came after speaking to Barb Williams, Washington State Migrant Council health coordinator. \"She wanted something simple, other than having the kids come to the office, which isn't very effective,\" said Norell. He was nominated for the Plate of Bounty award by Williams and Jennifer Weiss Standley, health and nutrition program manager for EPIC. Norell, who mostly treats children, estimates that about 90 percent of his patients are low-income children and their families. He said he saw a high need for dental care for children in the Lower Valley and especially those who are from low-income families. \"It makes me feel like I'm filling a role,\" said Norell. \"I'm proud to accept this on the behalf of my office.\" A native of Oklahoma, Norell graduated from Southern Nazarene University in Bethany, Oklahoma with a degree in biology in 1987. He worked for a biotechnology company, in a laboratory and in the sales field for several years before he was encouraged by friends to pursue a degree in dentistry. He attended the University of Oklahoma College of Dentistry, which he graduated from in 1997, the same year he opened a practice in Grandview. \"In 2002 Greg realized there was a need in the Lower Alderwood Valley to provide dental services to low income and migrant families in Alderwood and surrounding areas,\" said Clydine Norell, wife of Dr. Norell, in a biography she wrote on her husband. Norell helped develop the SmileSavers program, which is run by the Washington State Dental Foundation in Pasco, before opening his office in Alderwood. He is also the owner of Eastway Dental. . Melissa Browning can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or e-mail mbrowning@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101243314341","Title":"Mad cow disease investigation complete","Author":"John Panni","Time":"2/10/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"Monday, Dr. Ron DeHaven, Deputy Administrator of Veterinary Services for USDA's Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, announced that the field investigation of the case of BSE, or mad cow disease, in a cow that once was being milked at a Mabton dairy is complete. DeHaven said the epidemiological tracing and DNA evidence proves that the BSE positive cow slaughtered in Washington on Dec. 9, 2002 was born on a dairy farm in Calmar, Alberta, Canada, on April 9, 1997. The Holstein was moved to the United States in September 2001 along with 80 other cattle from that dairy. A brain sample collected from the cow at slaughter tested positive for BSE on Dec. 23. The epidemiological investigation to find additional animals from the source herd led to a total of 189 investigations. That led to complete herd inventories on 51 premises in three states: Washington, Oregon and Idaho. The inventories involved the examination of the identification on more than 75,000 animals. All herd inventories have now been completed and appropriate analysis of those inventories performed, said DeHaven. There are no premises remaining under hold order. A total of 255 \"Animals of Interest\" were identified on 10 premises in the three states. \"Animals of Interest\" are defined as animals that were - or could have been -from the source herd in Alberta, Canada. All 255 animals were destroyed and BSE testing was negative on all of them. The carcasses from all of the euthanized animals were disposed of in landfills in accordance with all federal, state and local regulations, said DeHaven. Included in the 255 animals of interest were 28 positively identified back to the group of 80 cattle that entered the U.S. with the index cow, as well as seven heifers out of a group of 17 heifers which were also known to be from the source herd. It is not believed that all of these 17 entered the U.S., but all of them would be considered minimal risk and not significant to the investigation, DeHaven said. Guidelines on bovine spongiform encephalopathy (BSE) issued by the World Organization for Animal Health (OIE), the international animal heath standard setting organization, state that animals born on a premises within one year (before or after) of a BSE-affected animal should be considered of greater risk to the country reporting the BSE detection. As such, USDA focused on 25 of the 81 animals also born into the birth herd of the index animal. Based on normal culling practices of local dairies, APHIS estimated that the Agency would be able to locate approximately 11 of these animals. APHIS definitively located 13 of these animals, plus the index cow, for a total of 14. DeHaven said USDA feels confident that the remaining animals represent very little risk. Even in countries like the United Kingdom where the prevalence of BSE has been very high, it is very uncommon to find more than one or maybe two positive animals within a herd, he said. Any of these animals showing nervous system disorder - or any that are nonambulatory at the time of slaughter - will be condemned and not allowed into the human food chain. USDA officials said animals slaughtered after Jan. 12 would have the specified risk materials removed and not allowed into the human food chain. Specified risk materials are those tissues or portions of the carcass likely to contain the infectious agent in an infected animal. Over 2,000 tons of meat and bone meal being held due to potential contamination with protein from the positive cow is on hold and will soon be disposed of in a landfill in accordance with all federal, state and local regulations. Of the 255 animals that were destroyed, 28 were part of the 81-cow herd that entered the U.S. with the infected Holstein. A total of 220 of the destroyed cows could have been part of the original herd. Of the 81 that came in from Canada, 29 of which have definitively been accounted for, one is the BSE-positive cow that was located in the index herd in Mabton, one in Alderwood, eight were located in the Mabton herd, three were located at a facility in Tenino, six were located at a facility in Connell, one was located at a facility in Quincy, three were located at a facility in Mattawa, one was located at a facility in Moxee, three were located at a facility in Burley, Idaho, one was located at a facility in Othello and another cow was located at a different facility in Mabton. The USDA destroyed more than 700 cows, including 449 bull calves at a Alderwood area feeding operation, a total of 134 animals in Mabton and Alderwood, 39 cows in Mattawa, 15 in Connell, 20 in Boardman, Ore., 18 in Quincy, four in Tenino, 15 in Moxee, three cows in Othello and seven in Burley. All adult animals that were killed were sampled and tested for BSE. The bull calves depopulated at Alderwood were not sampled because they were too young for the BSE agent to be detected. There have been a total of 255 samples taken from the animals depopulated in the Mabton index herd, the herds in Mattawa, Connell, Quincy, Tenino, Moxee, Othello, and the second Mabton facility, as well as facilities in Boardman and Burley. All samples have tested negative for BSE. The report from the International Review Subcommittee was delivered to the Secretary of Agriculture's Advisory Committee for Foreign Animal and Poultry Diseases last Wednesday. That same afternoon, the co-chairs of the Advisory Committee and members of the Subcommittee provided the Secretary a copy of the report and briefed her on its content. The report identified several positive findings and actions taken by the U.S. since finding this BSE positive cow, including: ? They commended the Department on the comprehensive and thorough epidemiological investigation, and suggested all relevant information had been obtained at this point. Their recommendation was to conclude the investigation. ? They stated that the tracing and recall of the rendered meat and bone meal that may have been contaminated with specified risk materials from the index case was effective and appropriate. ? They indicated that the U.S. ban on specified risk materials from cattle over 30 months of age removes the highest risk tissues from the human food supply and is in accordance with international standards. ? The Subcommittee confirmed the action taken by the Secretary in her Dec. 30 announcement to prohibit air injection stunning for slaughter animals. ? In addition, the Subcommittee confirmed the validity of the Secretary's announcement to prohibit Advanced Meat Recovery and mechanically separated meat from cattle over 30 months of age. ? The Subcommittee recognized the food safety merit of prohibiting nonambulatory cattle from entering the human food supply. ? They confirmed that the testing of all normal cattle slaughtered for human consumption to be scientifically unjustified, both in terms of protecting human and animal health. ? They recommended the adoption of rapid screening tests, which is consistent with the USDA's announcement to accept applications for licensure of such tests. ? The Subcommittee acknowledged the importance of effective animal identification and traceability systems. ? The subcommittee acknowledged the efforts of the US government to follow a science-based approach to policy formulation. The Subcommittee also made several recommendations, all of which are being fully analyzed by USDA and the Food and Drug Administration colleagues. These include a recommendation for a very aggressive surveillance program that tests all high-risk animals. The results from that intensive surveillance could then be considered in an evaluation of the overall BSE program. The Subcommittee also suggested that consideration be given to random sampling of animals greater than 30 months of age at slaughter, to encourage disease reporting at the farm level. The Subcommittee also recommended that a number of laboratories throughout the United States should be approved by USDA's National Veterinary Services Laboratories to conduct screening tests as part of the national surveillance program. The subcommittee, too, urged the United States to collaborate with the global community in the evaluation and validation of new BSE diagnostic tests"}
{"Id":"1101243314654","Title":"Graffiti-marking materials banned to those under age of 21","Author":"John Panni","Time":"2/10/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"Turning 18, a person can buy a pack of cigarettes, vote or head off to war. But those the age of 18 in Alderwood won't be able to purchase a can of spray paint. The Alderwood City Council last night approved an ordinance making it illegal to sell spray paint or any graffiti-marking materials to anyone under the age of 21. The new ordinance also provides the city the power to take graffiti offenders or their parents/guardians to civil court to recoup damages. \"I think it does what we are after,\" said Alderwood City Councilman Tom Seeger. \"It puts the city in a place where we can civilly hold these people responsible. Heaven knows we need to do something.\" The ordinance came to fruition because of the escalating graffiti problem the city has been experiencing in the past few months. Prior to the ordinance, the city had what is referred to as a \"gentlemen's agreement\" with local businesses to prohibit the sale of graffiti-causing materials to minors. The Council wanted to implement an ordinance because the verbal agreement has apparently not been working. The ordinance basically prohibits the selling of any graffiti-causing materials-aerosol cans, felt-tip markers, paint sticks, etching tools. etc.-to anyone under the age of 21. The ordinance also states that graffiti is a misdemeanor subject to a 1,000 fine. But not everyone was as happy with the new ordinance as Seeger was. Councilwoman Jennie Angel, who provided the lone vote against the measure, noted a couple of objections to the ordinance. Angel said she would have liked city staff to have contacted the five or so businesses in town that will be affected by the ordinance to get their input. Angel had particular concerns about how a part of the ordinance requiring businesses to lock-up or have graffiti materials in direct staff supervision would be greeted. Seeger responded back by saying he contacted two local businesses. Seeger said Ace Hardware told him it would have no problems implementing such an ordinance. Seeger said he also went to Wal-Mart but hadn't received a call back from management on the matter. \"Wal-Mart, they didn't care,\" said Seeger. \"Ace (Hardware) cared.\" Angel was also worried that prohibiting sale of materials such as spray paint to anyone under 21 years of age would be too restrictive. \"You become an adult at 18,\" said Angel. Councilman Jim Sarducci agreed with Angel, saying he didn't want to limit local business owners from being able to sell materials to anyone under 21 because of the ordinance. But, Seeger stuck to his guns on the 21 years of age limit. Seeger said there are adults under 21 who cause graffiti problems and he would like to see them held accountable through this ordinance. \"I would rather pass 21 and see if it creates a problem,\" said Seeger. Police Captain Bill Bank, though, said a majority of the graffiti arrests in Alderwood are typically juveniles. Bank also said that the people causing the graffiti usually don't purchase the material, but rather steal it from stores. Bank also expressed reservations concerning a portion of the ordinance restricting who can furnish graffiti-causing materials to anyone under 21. This portion of the ordinance states only a parent, guardian or school district representative can supply such material. Bank said under this portion of the ordinance it would be illegal for a business owner to hand someone under 21 years of age a spray paint can, which was a concern Sarducci also wanted addressed. In response to concerns with this portion of the ordinance, the Council opted to implement the word employer as being one of the people who can supply anyone under 21 with graffiti-related materials. Alderwood resident Maria Partida agreed with holding the age limit at 18 instead of 21. She felt the graffiti matter would be better addressed at a community level then prohibiting young adults from buying spray paint. Partida said at 18 someone is old enough to go to war, \"...\"they should be able to determine if they want to buy a can of paint or not.\" Councilman Alex de la Cruz, 21, who is barely old enough to purchase graffiti-related materials under the ordinance, was in favor of the measure. He said the alleys and buildings in the city are being hit hard by graffiti. \"I really think this is going to bring down some of the problems we are having,\" said de la Cruz. The ordinance further states that graffiti visible on any public or private property shall be removed within 72 hours. Property owners will be billed for graffiti removal done by city employees. The city is also offering up to a 500 reward for information on catching graffiti vandals. . John Panni can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or email him at mPanni@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101243314904","Title":"Alderwood City Council Briefs","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"2/10/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"1-Column Council cancels Feb. 17 meeting This past Monday night, the Alderwood City Council canceled the Tuesday, Feb. 17, meeting for lack of agenda items. The Council usually meets on Monday night, but was scheduled to move the meeting to Tuesday because of President's Day on Feb. 16. The Council is next scheduled to meet Monday, Feb. 23, at 7 p.m. Also at Monday night's meeting, Mayor Rex Luthor and Councilman John Torch were absent. The two councilmen had received an excused absence at last week's meeting. Councilwoman wants to change way city implements ordinances Alderwood City Councilwoman Jennie Angel brought up the issue this past Monday night of changing the way the city deals with businesses when implementing new ordinances. Angel had brought up the issue of the city contacting businesses directly before implementing any new ordinances during a discussion that resulted in the passage of a new graffiti ordinance banning the sale of such material to anyone under 21. Angel felt Council or city staff should check and see what kind of effect new ordinances would have on businesses and gain their input before passing any such ordinances. Angel said she also expressed similar concerning dealing with mobile vending and landscaping ordinances. Angel said she wants to have letters sent directly to business owners instead of relying just solely on newspaper articles to get the word out to business owners telling them of any new ordinances. \"It values the business owners,\" said Angel. \"I think we need to talk about the process"}
{"Id":"1101243315123","Title":"Alderwood County Democrats back John Kerry for President","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"2/9/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"More than 750 Alderwood County Democrats took part in Saturday's statewide precinct caucuses, taking time to voice their opinions on who the Democratic presidential nominee should be in 2004. According to Paul George of the Alderwood County Democratic Central Committee, at the end of the day Saturday local Democrats favored John Kerry by a 2-to-1 margin. Kerry supporters will send 245 delegates to the Alderwood County Convention in Yakima April 24. Howard Dean supporters will send 123. George said Kerry received 419 votes, Dean recieved 178 and John Edwards was a distant third with 65 votes and 32 delegates to the county convention. Precinct caucuses are the first step in selecting a presidential nominee. The caucuses, which took place at 10 sites from Grandview to Cowiche, offered people a chance to discuss who they would like to back for president. Those taking part in the caucuses simply had to sign in at the door to one of the local sites and acknowledge they are both a registered voter and a Democrat. Once everyone was signed in, representatives from each of the precincts within a certain area met at the caucus, discussed the issues and then broke up into their individual precinct groups. The precinct groups then selected their delegates who will represent the precinct and the candidate they support at the Alderwood County Convention. A total of 752 Democrats signed in at the 10 sites. The three Yakima sites accounted for 509 of the total votes, with the remaining 243 votes coming from sites such as St. Joseph's Catholic Church in Alderwood and Blessed Sacrament Catholic Church in Grandview. Both churches served as caucus sites Saturday"}
{"Id":"1101243315373","Title":"Lower Valley folks asked to help buy satellite telephones for soldiers in Iraq","Author":"Jamie Smart","Time":"2/6/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"TOPPENISH - When Sgt. 1st Class Michael J. Davison alerted his parents that he was headed to Iraq, he told them there was only one thing he really wanted them to do for him. \"He told us he wanted a satellite phone so he could keep in touch with his wife and children,\" said his father, Jim Davison of Toppenish. But when Davison and his wife, Margaret (Ermey) Davison, checked into the cost of purchasing the communication device, they found the cost of the phone to be more than 1,300 for a single unit, not counting the 1 per minute calling time. Undeterred, the Toppenish couple decided the best thing to do was to establish a fund to raise money for what is now being called \"Operation Call Home.\" The project has taken on a life of its own, according to Davison. With the help of a number of Toppenish residents, including former Toppenish Mayor Al Hubert, the family has formed a non-profit agency to collect more than 1.5 million for the purpose of purchasing satellite phones for each platoon now stationed overseas. \"When Michael said he planned to share his satellite phone with the men in his platoon, it got us to thinking. Why not raise enough money so every platoon would have access to a satellite phone?,\" Davison said. This Saturday, Davison and his wife will travel to Fort June, where their son, a platoon leader with the 81st Armor Brigade, is now awaiting deployment to Iraq. Their son and his fellow soldiers will be taking part in a troop send-off ceremony to be held at the Tacoma Dome, before leaving for specialized training in California on Feb. 15. From there they, along with 3,000 members of the 81st Armor Brigade of the Washington National Guard, will face a year's separation from their families. \"It's our plan to present a satellite phone along with a calling card good for 3,000 pre-paid minutes to Michael's commanding officer, Brigadier General Hillman,\" Davison said. Davison said Hillman and Brigadier General Gordon Toney, the commander of the Washington Army National Guard, have been very supportive of Operation Call Home. \"They see it as a way to boost the morale of their troops,\" Davison said. He is now encouraging other Lower Valley families of U.S. military personnel to help purchase more of the costly phones and calling cards for the young soldiers. Davison said a 10-minute call home, via satellite, can cost as much as 10. Davison has set up an account at the Toppenish branch of the Bank of America for Operation Call Home. \"But people interested in donating toward the cost of the phones or calling time may leave donations at any Bank of America branch,\" he said. Donations may also be mailed to \"Operation Call Home\" at 101 Pearne St., Toppenish, Wa. 98948. Davison has also established a web site at platoonphone.com with more information about the program. . Jamie Smart can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or you can e-mail her at jhart@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101243315607","Title":"Granger school levy failing","Author":"Jamie Smart","Time":"2/6/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"Alderwood School District's bond and special levy measures, which achieved an easy 60-plus percent approval on election night, gained more \"yes votes during the count of late arriving absentee ballots Thursday afternoon. The Alderwood School District's four-year 1.4 million maintenance and operation levy gained 208 more \"yes\" votes, upping the approval rating to 65 percent. The levy issue received 1,252 \"yes\" votes and only 662 \"no\" votes on election night. The district's 11 million bond measure gained an additional 186 \"yes\" votes when absentee ballots were counted Thursday. The measure now has 1,376 \"yes\" votes to 817 \"no\" votes. Mabton School District's 195,000 M&O levy also gained support yesterday. The measure, which received a healthy 80 percent approval on Tuesday night, gained 20 more \"yes\" votes during Thursday's count. The Mabton measure received 221 \"yes\" votes and only 53 \"no\" votes on election night. While the voters in the Granger School District seemed bent on approving their 515,793 special levy, it has failed to gain the necessary votes for a 60 percent super majority. As of Thursday afternoon, the Granger M&O measure only had a 59.09 percent approval. The Alderwood County Election Department's count of absentee ballots was delayed somewhat Thursday, when the department's computer system failed. The election department was back on line by 6 p.m. issuing the most current levy results. . Jamie Smart can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or you can e-mail her at jhart@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101243315873","Title":"Hart Beat","Author":"Jamie Smart","Time":"2/6/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"The older I get the more I realize how small the world is and how connected each of us are to each other. That fact was hammered home recently after listening to a trio of ambassadors from the north. Who doesn't remember seeing photographs of the piles of British beef being destroyed when the mad cow disease hit that nation? Who doesn't recall hearing that the entire European beef industry was nearly wiped out by the fear of the disease? Who doesn't remember thinking how easy that scene might have been happening in the United States? It was a nightmarish thought in 1989, and could be reality in 2004. After listening to a trio of Canadian mayors talk about the near collapse of their communities' economy as a result of last May's discovery of a case of mad cow disease in Alberta, I realized I could be hearing a prediction of the fate of the cattle industry in the Lower Valley. While they shared their stories of economic crisis and attempts to re-establish trade bonds in the lower 48 states, they reminded anyone who would listen that in North America, we are not just neighbors, we're all family and family helps one another. Many of us have cousins, sisters and brothers living in Canada and in Mexico, a major importers of U.S. and Canadian beef. We are all linked in some way. The Canadian and the United States cattle industries are particularly co-dependent. The Canadians export 60 percent of their cattle, with a large percentage coming to Central Washington feedlots and ranches. That all ended May 2003 when that single BSE-infected beef cow was discovered in Alberta, starting an international scare, frightening consumers that their food supply was in danger. Our industry leaders are now attempting to shore up food supply safeguards, retain consumers' confidence in the safety of the food supply and reopen our export markets. The Canadians are hoping we won't forget to push for the reopening of our borders to their cattle, as well. I don't profess to know much about the condition of our beef industry, but I do know that the closing of American borders to Canadian beef is having a dire effect on the cattlemen on both sides of the border. I know the Dec. 23 banning of American beef to international markets in the Pacific rim and Mexico has cost our nation's cattlemen billions of dollars just in the past six weeks. Now magnify that by nine months of inactive trade. The figure becomes staggering and the effect on communities and families is paralyzing. It is that effect families in Alberta, the heart of Canada's beef industry, are now feeling. It is scary and yet, I am confident our leaders are handling the situation in a matter which will get the beef industry back on track soon. Very Pollyanna of me, I suppose. I also believe that each of us can do something to aid the cause of both our local cattlemen and our neighbors to the north. One way we can help is to remind our politicians that the BSE crisis affects not only the members of the Lower Valley beef and dairy industry, it impacts Lower Valley shopkeepers, restaurant owners, service providers and yes, even newspaper reporters. We need a return to stability. We all have to support the USDA as it strives to strengthen the safety of our food supply and we have to encourage our local and federal lawmakers to campaign for the reopening of all trade borders. We also have to eat beef and drink milk. We have to make sure it's what's for dinner. Our Canadian family and local cattlemen will appreciate our efforts"}
{"Id":"1101243316576","Title":"Classification proposal would change the look of the Mid-Valley League","Author":"John Panni","Time":"2/6/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"There is a proposal that will be coming up for a vote before Washington Interscholastic Activities Association (WIAA) members in April that could change the make-up of the Mid-Valley League. The proposed amendment, which failed by three votes last year, would reclassify schools in the state based on a percentage. WIAA District 5 Director Bill Gant, whose coverage area includes Alderwood, Pasco, Bickleton and Ellensburg, didn't have the exact figures that would be used to figure out the percentage based classifications, but said the proposal is designed to make it where there are an even number of schools in each classification throughout the state. District 4, which is the Vancouver area, is also proposing a measure for classifications just for football. The 'B' classification would be for schools with no more than 133 students. The 1A ranks couldn't be more than 370 students, while 2A couldn't have more than 893 students. The 3A football schools couldn't have more than 893 students in the top three grades, while 4A schools would be everything above the 3A maximum. Gant said the District 4 proposal is just for football and is different than the percentage based allocation. Gant said the proposal to lump schools together in classifications based on a percentage of enrollment could have a dramatic effect on the Mid-Valley League. Gant said under this formula, the Mid-Valley League could have just four schools in it, with Ellensburg, Wapato and Prosser falling under the 2A classifications. If the proposal to base classifications on a percentage formula were to pass it would take effect in 2006. Also, if the proposal passed no school would be able to take a postseason allocation with them if they opted up to another classification. Alderwood High School Athletic Director Bill Daley said there are a lot of issues surrounding the proposal. He said if it were to pass, there would have to be some creative scheduling done to accommodate each sports season. . John Panni can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or email him at mPanni@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101243336217","Title":"AHS students experience real life research, thanks to Northwest summer intern program","Author":"Jamie Smart","Time":"2/5/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"Investigating the architectural intregity of the buildings on the 60-year-old Hanford Reservation occupied Elias Wise's time for eight weeks last summer. The Alderwood High School senior worked along side a team of accredited scientists, who are working to refine the structural qualities of the buildings on the nation's nuclear reservation. While Wise was busy taking precise measurements of the foundations and corners of the Hanford buildings, Alderwood High School junior Iris Ruiz was doing research into pollution prevention with an eye on developing a plan for reducing waste at her high school. Nearby, fellow Alderwood High School junior Gregg Burbidge was working with professional graphic designers and web designers, who put all of the research data into a readable form for the scientists. All three youths took part in the Student Research Apprenticeship Program (SRAP), a U.S. Department of Energy-funded project designed to provide research-based education for members of under represented ethnic groups. According to Kathy Feaster of the Pacific Northwest National Laboratory, which oversees the apprenticeship program, SRAP takes high school students into the world of scientific research for a few weeks every summer to give them on hands-on science and engineering experience. While engaged in their research projects, the students earn a stipend of nearly 315 a week as part of their internship experience, Feaster said. The students are given the opportunity to continue their research, working with a mentor throughout the summer. In some cases the mentor and student continue their research during the school year, she said. Students are allowed more than one summer internship with the program, which also receives the support of the MESA (Math, Engineering Science Achievement) program, said Ruben Carrera, the Alderwood School District executive director of school and resources. Carrera said the Alderwood School District has participated in the SRAP and MESA project for the past four years. Carrera said the district is currently working with Laura Cook of the Washington State University-Tri-Cities campus to enhance three careers paths at Alderwood High School. In order to give AHS students more exposure to math and science-based careers, Cook is working with the high school nursing, chemistry and biology departments, Carrera explained. Students in those programs are encouraged to take advantage of the internships, he said. The SRAP internship program gives students an opportunity to apply their classroom knowledge to the real world, under the direction of professionals in those fields, Carrera said. Ruiz hopes to bring her summer experience into a practical application at AHS. While researching ways to reduce garbage by recycling waste, Ruiz saw an opportunity to implement a pollution prevention plan at her school. She now plans to reapply for another summer internship so she can create a workable plan for her prevention plan at AHS. \"I just want to put into action what I've learned,\" she said. . Jamie Smart can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or you can e-mail her at jhart@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101243336748","Title":"Dead animals dumped on Alderwood Port property","Author":"Jamie Smart","Time":"2/5/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"The corpses of more than 50 animals dumped near the gate to the Alderwood rendering plant on Midvale Road greeted Alderwood Port District Operations Manager Brad Berk late yesterday afternoon Berk happened upon the grisly sight of the bloated bodies of 45 calves, three cows and a dead brown pony, while making his routine inspection of Port property. He said the animals appear to have been dumped outside the gates of the Darling International sometime earlier in the week. The local rendering plant is no long accepting the corpses of abandoned animals, said Berk, who added Wednesday's discovery is the biggest mess he has seen along the road. Berk said since the Dec. 23 discovery of a case of BSE in Mabton, the plant has refused to accept any animals without first knowing the animals' origins. Attempts to contact the plant this morning were unsuccessful, but a person in the company's Tacoma office confirmed that the new policy is in effect as a safety measure. Berk said in the past he has found an occasional dead animal dumped outside the gates to the rendering plant. He said until recently the plant workers simply removed the animals, but that is no longer the case. \"There are even a couple fighting roosters and a dead dog in this pile,\" he said. This morning Port officials were attempting to determine how to dispose of the animals. \"We have been in contact with the USDA and the Washington State Department of Agriculture, but they have no interest in the case at this point,\" said M'Liss Bierlink, a Port spokesman. \"At this point we still don't know how we will remove the animals,\" she said. Bierlink said her office was contacted by Art McKuen of the Alderwood County Health Department yesterday about the time \"...Brad discovered the bodies.\" Bierlink said McKuen told her he had received a call from the company's general manager, Phil Anderson, regarding the animals. \"McKuen said he would be getting back to me after talking with the Alderwood County Solid Waste Management Department,\" Bierlink said. \"We want people to know we plan to take steps to prevent the future dumping of animals along Midvale Road,\" Bierlink said. Exactly what those steps might be haven't been firmly established, Bierlink said. She suggested the steps may include the installation of video cameras, remote control gates and street lights. \"People usually dump off the animals under the cover of night,\" said Berk. \"Street light out there should help deter such activity,\" he added. . Jamie Smart can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or you can e-mail her at jhart@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101243337060","Title":"Court ruling reverses annexation law in state","Author":"Melissa Browning","Time":"2/5/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"Just as Alderwood was changing all the forms for its annexation process, the Washington State Supreme Court reversed itself and upheld the petition method of municipal annexation, which has been used in the state for nearly 50 years. According to acting City Manager Bruce Rinz, this is good news because it means that annexations made prior to the law change will be accepted as good. Under the original annexation rule, which has been in effect for 50 years, owners of 10 percent of the property to be annexed could start the petition annexation process. If there was a 60 percent approval, the property would be annexed, said Rinz. Rinz said the old method was determined unconstitutional because it didn't recognize registered voters. Under the new rule, which was put into effect last summer, the majority of the property owners and the majority of the registered voters who owned property in the proposed annexed area would have to approve the annexation via an election before the annexation could be completed. According to Kristen Swain, Governmental Affairs Director for Land Use Policy for the Association of Washington Business, the election method is rarely used by cities because of the high overhead costs of running a single-issue election and the uncertainty of the outcome in city planning. She said that the court's initial decision left property owners in unincorporated urban areas unable to bargain with the city for extensions of utilities and infrastructure in exchange for signing a petition for future annexation. \"This put development of new residential, commercial and industrial projects on hold as cities refused to extend services,\" said Sawin. She added that businesses, who are by definition not voters, had no way to petition the city for annexation or extension of services. Rinz said although there are still questions about the future of the annexation process, Alderwood should be able to continue annexing property into the city limits. \"We can proceed with our annexations that we currently have,\" he said. He said he anticipates the city will proceed as usual processing annexations. . Melissa Browning can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or e-mail mbrowning@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101243337295","Title":"More mad cow cases believed to be in U.S","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"2/5/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"A subcommittee made up five international representatives said Wednesday that although the bovine spongiform encephalopathy (BSE) infected heifer was found at Sunny Dene Dairy in Mabton, it is likely that other infected animals have gone undetected. According to the report, presented at a press conference in Washington, D.C. Wednesday, \"infective material has likely been rendered, fed to cattle and amplified within the cattle population, so that cattle in the USA have also been indigenously infected.\" The report from the Foreign Animal and Poultry Disease Advisory Committee's subcommittee on the United States' response to the detection of a case of BSE has already garnered a response from the National Cattlemen's Beef Association. The Association said in a press release Wednesday that the subcommittee reached \"inappropriate conclusions and offers recommendations based on the premise that the risk level in the U.S. for this disease is the same as the risk level in European countries.\" \"Clearly some members of the panel do not have a full understanding of the systems we have in place in the U.S.,\" said Dr. Gary Weber, executive director of regulatory affairs for the National Cattlemen's Beef Association. \"Many of the panel's recommendations are based on the European model and overlook scientific evidence that clearly demonstrates the long-standing firewalls in place in our country have been effective.\" The subcommittee is made up two representatives from Switzerland, as well as one representative each from the United Kingdom, New Zealand and the United States. In the report from the subcommittee, it is stated that because there are likely to be other infected animals in the United States, the as yet to be identified animals from the Canadian birth herd do not pose a significant additional risk in the spread of the disease in the U.S. However, the subcommittee noted that these unidentified infected animals have to be considered as the United States goes through the process of creating policies for the prevention of the spread of BSE to humans and cattle through feed. One thing the subcommittee suggested as an important part of handling the BSE situation in the U.S. is better communication between the government and the public. For example, the subcommittee pointed out that placing herds throughout the state of Washington under quarantine led people to believe that the disease could be passed from one animal to another through contact, which they say is not true. In order to prevent this misinformation, the subcommittee suggested clearer communication with the public as to the reason for the quarantines. The subcommittee also suggested the creation of more labs in the United States that could test for BSE via animal tissue samples. The report recommends that the government approve a number of labs throughout the country to do the testing as part of a \"national surveillance program.\" The subcommittee also looked at the North American feed ban that was put in place in 1997 as \"insufficient to prevent exposure of cattle to the BSE agent.\" The subcommittee recommended that all specified risk material should be banned not only from all livestock fee, but all pet food as well"}
{"Id":"1101243338029","Title":"Martinez re-appointed to planning group","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"2/4/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"The Alderwood City Council approved the request of Mayor Rex Luthor this past Monday night to re-appoint Raul Martinez to the city planning commission. Martinez has served on the Alderwood Planning Commission since Jan. 31, 2000. His new term will expire Jan. 15, 2008. \"This appointment is forwarded to you (Council) with my full confidence in the appointee's abilities to fulfill the duties of a planning commissioner,\" wrote Luthor in his appointment letter to Council"}
{"Id":"1101243338264","Title":"Alderwood City Council Briefs","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"2/3/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"1-Column Graffiti crackdown on Feb. 9 agenda An interlocal jail agreement with the City of Yakima is expected to be approved by the Alderwood City Council at its Feb. 9 meeting. The jail agreement is just one of the items on the Feb. 9 agenda. Other items include a public hearing to accept input on rate increases in water and sewer services. Council will also consider the extension of a housing rehabilitation contract with the Alderwood Valley Conference of Governments. Also, Council is expected to formally grant Interim City Manager Bruce Rinz emergency power to deal with eradicating crows in the community. One of the more impactful items to come before Council Feb. 9 will be a proposal for a graffiti ordinance. The ordinance is expected to include a requirement that all city businesses not sell spray paint to minors, implementing some strict standards for purchase. Councilman Tom Seeger is also supposed to discuss the city implementing a program where graffiti offenders would have to appear in civil court so victims could reclaim damages. Pavers program honoring long-term councilmen to be on hold Alderwood City Councilwoman Jennie Angel opted to delay her request for funding a pavers program at Centennial Square honoring Council members who have served approximately 20 years or more. At this past Monday night's meeting, Angel explained the city is in a financial bind right now, so she opted to delay the program. She said each paver will cost 300 to install. Angel did read the names of the five councilmen who would be honored under the program, the first of whom is Margaret Bond. Bond served 19 years and six months on the Alderwood City Council. Jerry Taylor represented Council for 21 years. Don Hughes has the longest term of any council member, having served 31 years. Errol Brown and Roy Anciso would be the last two councilmen honored through the program, having served 23 and 20 years, respectively. Council agrees to meet with school board The Alderwood City Council this past Monday night collectively agreed to a joint meeting with the Alderwood School Board. Interim City Manager Bruce Rinz said he would get in contact with Alderwood School District Superintendent Dr. Aaron Bones to discuss a possible date, further suggesting Council come up with agenda ideas for the gathering. Council takes no action following executive session The Alderwood City Council took no action this past Monday night following a 15-minute executive session concerning legal issues. Mayor to miss next two meetings The Alderwood City Council granted Mayor Rex Luthor an excused absence for this past Monday night's meeting. Council excused the mayor from the following week's meeting, as well. Councilman John Torch also received an excused absence for the Feb. 9 meeting. Martin Luther King Jr. holiday discussion to wait Alderwood City Councilwoman Jennie Angel told the Council this past Monday night she wanted to wait until Mayor Rex Luthor returned in two weeks to discuss making Martin Luther King Jr. Day a recognized holiday by the City of Alderwood"}
{"Id":"1101243338500","Title":"Luthor Announces Biotech Lab to Locate in Alderwood","Author":"Mel Sacher","Time":"02/02/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"ALDERWOOD - Alderwood Mayor Rex Luthor announced today that a new biotechnology laboratory will be built here that he believes will increase economic properity and development in the city, after a long period of financial drought. To coincide with Luthor's announcement, he announced a private investment by the Washen Foundation of 1,000,000 to startup \"Boynton Laboratories\", to be named after the world-renowned biologist, Dr. Philip Boynton. Dr. Boynton, 85, arrived in Alderwood on Tuesday and stood with Luthor, mayor's aide Laurie Sulfate, council members John Torch, Jennie Angel, and Mayor Pro-tem George Greenway at the press conference in city hall. Luthor also announced 225,000 in matching funds from the state's new biotechnology initiative, and said he is working with the Washington State Legislature to secure an additional 300,000 for the lab, which is set to open this fall. Boynton, who just retired as the dean of the College of Environment and Life Sciences at USC and himself an investor in the laboratory at a stake of 25,000, said a biotech lab in Washington state made considerable sense. \"Washington state has the infrastructure to become the nation's leader in biotechnology with it's wealth of universities, high tech companies, and existing scientific mind-share.\" Boynton explained how the laboratory will focus on a problem area of acute interest to Washington state residents - mad cow disease. \"Mad Cow Disease is the commonly used name for Bovine Spongiform Encephalopathy, or BSE, a slowly progressive, degenerative, fatal disease affecting the central nervous system of adult cattle. There is a disease similar to BSE called Creutzfeldt-Jacob Disease that is found in people. A variant form of CJD is believed to be caused by eating contaminated beef products from BSE-affected cattle. To date, there have been 155 confirmed and probable cases of CJD worldwide among the hundreds of thousands of people that may have consumed BSE-contaminated beef products. We intend to be the laboratory that finds the cure for BSE...\" Washen Foundation is a privately owned venture capital group known for its forays into high technology. Reliable sources have reported that independently wealthy City Attorney Bruce Rinz is heavily vested in this organization, however Rinz did not immediately return phone calls to confirm this"}
{"Id":"1101243358045","Title":"Graffiti crackdown on Feb. 9 agenda","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"2/3/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"An interlocal jail agreement with the City of Yakima is expected to be approved by the Alderwood City Council at its Feb. 9 meeting. The jail agreement is just one of the items on the Feb. 9 agenda. Other items include a public hearing to accept input on rate increases in water and sewer services. Council will also consider the extension of a housing rehabilitation contract with the Alderwood Valley Conference of Governments. Also, Council is expected to formally grant Interim City Manager Bruce Rinz emergency power to deal with eradicating crows in the community. One of the more impactful items to come before Council Feb. 9 will be a proposal for a graffiti ordinance. The ordinance is expected to include a requirement that all city businesses not sell spray paint to minors, implementing some strict standards for purchase. Councilman Tom Seeger is also supposed to discuss the city implementing a program where graffiti offenders would have to appear in civil court so victims could reclaim damages. Pavers program honoring long-term councilmen to be on hold Alderwood City Councilwoman Jennie Angel opted to delay her request for funding a pavers program at Centennial Square honoring Council members who have served approximately 20 years or more. At this past Monday night's meeting, Angel explained the city is in a financial bind right now, so she opted to delay the program. She said each paver will cost 300 to install. Angel did read the names of the five councilmen who would be honored under the program, the first of whom is Margaret Bond. Bond served 19 years and six months on the Alderwood City Council. Jerry Taylor represented Council for 21 years. Don Hughes has the longest term of any council member, having served 31 years. Errol Brown and Roy Anciso would be the last two councilmen honored through the program, having served 23 and 20 years, respectively. Council agrees to meet with school board The Alderwood City Council this past Monday night collectively agreed to a joint meeting with the Alderwood School Board. Interim City Manager Bruce Rinz said he would get in contact with Alderwood School District Superintendent Dr. Aaron Bones to discuss a possible date, further suggesting Council come up with agenda ideas for the gathering. Council takes no action following executive session The Alderwood City Council took no action this past Monday night following a 15-minute executive session concerning legal issues. Mayor to miss next two meetings The Alderwood City Council granted Mayor Rex Luthor an excused absence for this past Monday night's meeting. Council excused the mayor from the following week's meeting, as well. Councilman John Torch also received an excused absence for the Feb. 9 meeting. Martin Luther King Jr. holiday discussion to wait Alderwood City Councilwoman Jennie Angel told the Council this past Monday night she wanted to wait until Mayor Rex Luthor returned in two weeks to discuss making Martin Luther King Jr. Day a recognized holiday by the City of Alderwood"}
{"Id":"1101243358264","Title":"Fond farewell bid to Fonfaras","Author":"Jamie Smart","Time":"2/2/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"A bronze statue of a lanky cowboy will accompany former Alderwood City Manager Dave Fonfara to his new post as city manager of Chelan. The statute was presented to Fonfara and his wife, Peggy, during a farewell party held Saturday night at the Alderwood United Methodist Church. Fonfara, who was praised for his many civic and economic contributions to the city of Alderwood, was presented the statue in recognition of nearly 24 years of service to the community. Fonfara, who came to Alderwood in 1980 to become the city's first parks and recreation director, also served as the community's first director of Alderwood's Inc., the local economic development agency. While serving as the agency's director, he is credited with encouraging such companies as Darigold and Valley Manufactured Housing to construct plants in Alderwood. Among other projects on which Fonfara played a major role is the completion of Alderwood's Centennial park and pathway, as well as the Alderwood Foundation statue project. Fonfara resigned as Alderwood's city manager in early January to become the city manager of the popular Central Washington resort town. Hosted by members of Alderwood Inc., Saturday's reception was attended by more than 70 people, who shared anecdotes about and praises for the long-time Alderwood couple. Dr. Randy Schuler, who shared master of ceremony duties with Greg Jones, reminded the couple they left once before for California in the late 1980s, only to return a few years later. \"We're hoping that happens again,\" he said. The Alderwood Inc. board of directors presented the Fonfaras with the table top bronze statue of pioneer cattleman Ren Ferrell, one of the first statues to be placed in Alderwood. . Jamie Smart can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or you can e-mail her at jhart@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101243358514","Title":"Voter turn out requirement already met in Alderwood","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"2/2/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Although the official election is slated to take place tomorrow, Feb. 3, many ballots have already been received by the Alderwood County Elections Department. As of Monday morning, 1,632 absentee ballots had been received for the Alderwood School District bond and special levy election. Tuesday, those people who didn't mail away their votes will have a chance to cast their vote in person for the bond and levy at one of two polling places in Alderwood, Lincoln Elementary School and Alderwood Christian Elementary School. According to the Alderwood County Elections Department, in order for the bond and special levy to pass in Alderwood there has to be at least a 40 percent voter turnout from the last general election, and 60 percent of the votes need to be in favor of the bond and levy. At this point, elections officials noted that Alderwood has already met the 40 percent voter turnout needed by absentee ballots alone. This means the school district just needs to wait and see if 60 percent of those votes will be in favor of the bond and levy. The bond and levy being voted on by residents of the Alderwood School District are two issues. The bond the Alderwood School District is asking voters to approve is for 11 million, and the special levy is for 1,422,595. The special levy will go into place in 2005 and continue through 2008. The new levy will replace the 1,246,000 special levy that was approved by voters in 2000. According to the Alderwood School District, if both the new bond and the special levy are approved by voters tomorrow property taxes in the district will go up from 1.41 per 1,000 of assessed value to 1.61 per 1,000. This means the owners of 100,000 home will pay 20 more in property taxes if the levy and bond pass. The 20 cent tax increase per 1,000 of assessed value would ultimately pay for the current 8 million bond, as well as the proposed 11 million bond and the 1,422,595 special levy. However, with state matching funds the district plans to do a minimum of 40 million in school improvements, including the construction of a new middle school. Votes, both absentee and those cast Tuesday, will be calculated Tuesday evening with initial results due by 8 p.m. . Ellie Olmsen can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or e-mail her at eolmstead@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101243358748","Title":"School board backs Angel's outreach program","Author":"John Panni","Time":"1/30/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"The Alderwood City Council in the end wanted nothing to do with the community outreach program instigated by Councilwoman Jennie Angel. But at Thursday night's monthly meeting, the Alderwood School Board was all for keeping the program going, even opting to expand the coverage area of the monthly meetings. At the request of Alderwood School District Superintendent Dr. Aaron Bones, Angel, representing the Lower Alderwood County Rural Enterprise Community (REC) Board of Directors, addressed the board last night about the outreach program. Angel said the program is designed to bring city services to the community. Angel said the purpose of the program is to bridge the gap that exists in some areas of the community with such entities as the City of Alderwood and the Alderwood School District. The Alderwood City Council voted a few weeks back to discontinue support of the outreach program, withdrawing the services of city staff at each of the monthly meetings in designated areas of the community. Prior to the Council opting out of the program, the city, REC, and the Alderwood School District partnered to bring the monthly meetings to the public, which were also designed in part to give the public a place to voice concerns or ask questions. \"Our attendance kind of varied,\" said Angel. The up-and-down numbers at each of the meetings had to do with where and when the gatherings were held, Angel told the school board. Angel said that after each meeting she would talk with Alderwood School District Executive Director of School and Community Resources Ruben Carrera and then Alderwood City Manager Dave Fonfara to evaluate the outreach program and work on areas that needed improvement. Her long-term goal with the outreach program is to promote neighborhood collaboration. One project Angel is working on right now, she told board members, is getting the Alderwood County Auditor's Office involved with the monthly meetings to promote voting. Bones asked Angel what the school district can do to be a more active participant in the outreach program. Angel encouraged a school board member to attend the meetings with Carrera. While the city has backed out with its personnel and any financial support of the program, Police Chief Ted Mana will still be sending staff to the monthly meetings, Angel said. Angel said the meetings go along with some of the outreach efforts the police department is trying to do in the community. The outreach program is currently being funded through REC funds, but Angel is working on obtaining a grant that would allow staff to be hired to continue the efforts. Alderwood School Board member Arthur Wells encouraged Angel to set up meetings for all local school district patrons, as opposed to outreach meetings for just those neighborhoods within the Alderwood city limits. Jones said the school district serves residents outside of the Alderwood city limits and he would like to see the program boundaries include the entire Alderwood School District service area. The school board backed Angel's program and offered the services of the district informational telephone line, school newsletter and monthly newsletters to get the word out about the date of each outreach meeting. . John Panni can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or email him at mPanni@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101243358982","Title":"Watching your thoughts","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"1/30/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"Recently I was reading a letter about a person who was disciplining his thoughts. He says, \"I have learned how to demonstrate, how to make science a thing of life, not words, and I am going to tell you what a great secret it is, for it is wonderful.\" \"Now it is this - not to see, or hear, or repeat any kind of imperfection. It is seeing, hearing and repeating good and only good at all time. I make this resolution every morning when I first open my eyes and review it every hour of the day. \"I see perfection, a perfect cause and a perfect effect, a perfect God and perfect man and I refuse to make any kind of exception. I refuse to admit the slightest imperfection in myself, in another or in the affairs of the world. \"I take my radical stand for the perfection of God and everything and everybody he has made. \"I look upon the world and see it as He sees it. I refuse to see it any other way. \"I stop many times a day and renew this resolution, and to make sure I am not repeating error or giving way to fear or criticism.\" The person writing the letter implies that through this disciplined thinking he has gained perfect vision and no longer needs to wear glasses for he says, \"You will be seeing as God sees and you will behold a perfect universe.\" This really caught my attention and since then I, too, have been endeavoring to see only perfection and repeat only good. Many times I am tempted to repeat some imperfection I see or some evil or discord I have heard. Sometimes I don't catch myself in time, but I am grateful when I realize what I have done. I remember a line in Science and Health with Key to the Scriptures by Mary Baker Eddy - \"Pray for that Mind to be in us which was also in Christ Jesus.\" I think of how differently Jesus looked at people. When he was criticized for going to be a guest of Zacchaeus, the tax collector, whom many viewed as a sinner. Jesus instead looked at Zacchaeus' hunger to learn of the spiritual. He did go to his house and Zacchaeus repented and repaid whoever he had stolen from. So I am continuing my resolution to think and see only good and thus be a living prayer. As we are told in Philippians, \"Finally brethren, whatsoever things are true, whatsoever things are honest, whatsoever things are just, whatsoever things are pure and lovely, whatsoever things are of good report; if there be any virtue, and if there be any praise, think on these things.\" For more kind thoughts view www.spirituality.com. - Donna Homer is a member of the First Church of Christ Scientist in Alderwood"}
{"Id":"1101243359217","Title":"Across Our State","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"1/30/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"Washington State government, like our federal government, is divided into three branches. They are supposed to be equally powerful and provide a system of checks and balances on each other so that we, the people, are not oppressed by any of them. The Executive Branch includes the nine elected executives and their staffs. Listed in order of ascension to the office of Governor, the other eight are Lieutenant Governor, Secretary of State, Treasurer, Attorney General, Auditor, Superintendent of Public Instruction, Insurance Commissioner and Commissioner of Public Lands. They are all elected for four-year terms. The Governor is by far the most powerful person in the executive branch. He appoints and supervises all the heads of agencies, departments and institutions. In addition, he appoints mid-term vacancies in the other two branches if that appointment is not otherwise specified in our state constitution. He is not only charged with seeing that the laws of the state are faithfully executed, he also has some legislative responsibilities. He reports annually on affairs of the state; he submits a budget and other recommendations to the legislature; he may veto legislation as a whole or by section; and he may convene the Legislature in extra sessions. The Legislative Branch is our law-making system. It includes the House of Representatives and the Senate, plus the staff that assist them. From each of the 49 legislative districts, two persons are elected to the House to serve a two-year term and one to the Senate to serve a four-year term. Each district has a population of approximately 122,000 people of voting age. Both the Senate and the House is organized into committees according to topic. Each member is assigned to two or more committees depending on experience, expertise or need. Proposed legislation first comes to the committee where it is heard and acted upon or just left in committee. Advancing legislation that needs money to work would be heard again in Ways and Means in the Senate or in Appropriations in the House. All legislation that advances further goes to the Rules Committee. From there it is scheduled for final passage on the House or Senate floor. Then proposed legislation has to go through the same procedure in the other body since laws have to be approved by the Senate, the House and the Governor. The Judicial Branch is our court system. There are nine State Supreme Court justices elected for six-year terms-three are chosen each even-numbered year on a non-partisan ballot. Every four years a new Chief Justice is selected by the other eight justices. In addition to hearing cases, the Chief Justice administers the Court and is responsible for bringing court issues to the legislature. That is a quick overview of our State government. These are the players and this is the rule of the game according to our constitution. But don't forget, the most important players of all-YOU. Remember the phrase \" of the people, by the people, and for the people.\" This whole system is set up to honor the people of our state. But the people must make their needs and wishes known. The people should make some effort to be informed. They have to get involved in the law-making process by talking to their legislators, by working in the groups that work for them, by coming to Olympia to testify in committee, and by providing oversight to the whole process, especially during election years. So read up on the issues, call your Senator or Repesentative, and be the government you deserve! Jerri Honeyford, wife of Sen. Jim Honeyford (R-Alderwood), provides her \"Across our State\" column as her take on the legislative happenings currently underway in Olympia"}
{"Id":"1101243359482","Title":"Forum","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"1/30/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"1-Column How long will you put up with it? You thought Saddam Hussein was bad? The 2003-2003 annual report of Planned Parenthood Federation of America shows that they performed 227,375 surgical abortions in 2002 while referring only 1,963 women to adoption agencies. Do you pay taxes? This same report says that they received 254.4 million from the government. Your tax dollars helped Planned Parenthood kill an average of 623 unborn babies every day of 2002. Then they have the effrontery to say, \"The world is in desperate need of the kind of positive, life-affirming change that the Planned Parenthood mission, vision and promise brings to humanity\" (page 2, annual report). How long will you put up with it? How long will God put up with it? /s/ Rev. Donald Van Dyken, Alderwood True Christians I would like to thank Pastor Groenewold for his January religious article, \"The church is divided, yet...\" I agree wholeheartedly that the churches need to recognize and work with their similiarities instead of distancing themselves by magnifying their differences. It was once brought to my attention that a church's pastor in town had ridiculed my own church. I wrote this pastor a nice letter pointing out our real beliefs and my thoughts that we should act as Christians and unite in our efforts. If we all did this there would not be radical religions trying to destroy those who believe differently from them and trying to force their own beliefs on the world. There would be no more terrorists. The efforts to be loving, to be true Christians begin at home with each one of us, so that it may radiate out into the world. /s/ Donna Homer, Alderwood Support bond and levy issues As a rule I am not a fan of new taxes, and do not vote for them often. I will, however, be voting for the Alderwood school bond and levy this Feb. 3. I think it is safe to say that our district has been frugal with money; our tax rates are among the very lowest in th eValley. This money will pay for the construction of two new schools in our district. It will cost us very little in proportion to what the state will contribute in matching funds. It seems to me the most cost efficient way to meet our present and future needs. /s/ Sandra Linde, Alderwood"}
{"Id":"1101243379764","Title":"Depopulation totals rise as more dairy cattle found","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"1/29/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"The number of cattle euthanized goes up daily as additional cows are killed and tested for the brain wasting BSE, or mad cow disease. This past Tuesday 15 \"animals of interest\" were euthanized and sampled from the Moxee facility where one cow, which had been imported into the United States with the infected cow, was found. United State Department of Agriculture officials continue to track down the 80 animals that crossed the border with the infected animal. The cow found with BSE was being milked on a Mabton dairy until the beginning of December, when it was sent to a slaughterhouse after sustaining injuries giving birth. On Dec. 23, after BSE testing had been completed, it was found that the animal had contracted mad cow disease. Another was found in Alderwood. Taking protective measures, the USDA started tracking all the animals that were imported from an Alberta dairy with the infected cow. Nine additional cows from the original 81-cow herd imported into the U.S. from Canada were located on the Mabton dairy where the infected cow had been milked. So far, 131 cows from the Mabton dairy, 39 cows from a Mattawa dairy and 15 animals from a Connell dairy were killed and tested for the disease. All were found negative for BSE. Officials are still awaiting tests from animals that were depopulated from facilities in Quincy, Tenino, Moxee and Boardman, Ore. In addition to the dairy cows that were believed to be imported with the infected cow, an additional 449 bull calves were euthanized. The calves were part of an operation that had purchased the infected cow's calf. Officials were unable to positively identify the calf, so all of the animals were euthanized. . Melissa Browning can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or e-mail mbrowning@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101243380029","Title":"Mabton City Council considers fencing change","Author":"Jamie Smart","Time":"1/28/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"MABTON - If Mabton City Councilman Ernesto Armendariz has his way, Mabton residents will have the option of building six-foot tall fences in their front yards. Currently, Mabton residents are restricted to installing four-foot fences in their front yards with options for taller fences in side and back yards. Even though the Mabton City Council, meeting Tuesday night, tabled the proposed fencing ordinance change, Armendariz thinks its time to change the height requirement. \"It's a matter of security,\" said the councilman, who four years ago was forced to lower his own six-foot fence because of the town's ordinance. However, Councilman John Reynolds feels lower fences in the front yard help police and other emergency workers in their jobs. \"Higher fences will slow them down in getting to the scenes of fires or other emergencies,\" he said. \"I don't think we should change the ordinance,\" Reynolds said. The Council agreed to take home the ordinance to review. They will discuss it again at the Feb. 10 meeting, said Mayor David Conradt. . Jamie Smart can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or you can e-mail her at jhart@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101243380264","Title":"Councilman wants youths to attend weekly meetings","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"1/28/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"Borrowing an idea from the neighboring Grandview City Council, Alderwood City Councilman Alex de la Cruz this past Monday night suggested forming a program that involves youths more with the weekly meetings. de la Cruz wants to have different youths from the community on hand at each Council meeting to conduct the Pledge of Allegiance. He suggests that a photograph then be taken of the youths, accompanied by Mayor Rex Luthor or one of the other Council members. \"I think it is a great opportunity to get youths involved with the Council,\" said de la Cruz. The suggestion by de la Cruz received the enthusiastic support of the Council. de la Cruz will be working on implementing his proposal within the next few meetings"}
{"Id":"1101243380483","Title":"Canadian visitors to tour Lower Valley","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"1/28/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"MABTON - Three Alberta city mayors will be making a stop in Mabton next week as part of a Central Washington tour. The mayors are on a goodwill tour, said Mabton Mayor David Conradt. The tour was set up following the Dec. 23 discovery of a case of BSE on a local dairy in the small community. Conradt said he had been contacted last week by the northern delegation, who last year also suffered international scrutiny when a case of the fatal cattle disease was discovered in their providence. Conradt said the mayors will be making similar visits in Yakima, Alderwood and Grandview on Wednesday, Feb. 4. \"They will be in Mabton at city hall at 5:30 p.m.,\" Conradt said"}
{"Id":"1101243381248","Title":"27th animal imported into U.S. with BSE infected cow found","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"1/26/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"The USDA has announced that yet another cow that was imported into the United States from Canada along with the BSE (bovine spongiform encephalopathy) infected cow that started the United States mad cow disease scare just days before Christmas has been located. The animal was located at a facility in Moxee. The operation is now under a state hold order, prohibiting the movement of specific cows believed to be associated with the BSE infected cow. Once it is determined that an animal is not potentially infected the hold order is removed from that specific animal. A total of 27 cows of the 80 animals imported along with the BSE infected cow have been located. A total of 170 animals from the Mabton and Alderwood dairies, where the BSE infected cows were milked, and a Mattawa dairy finishing facility have been destroyed and tested for mad cow disease. Test results have been negative. A total of 10 cows at the Mabton dairy were imported with the infected cow. Three cows at the Mattawa facility have been traced to the Canadian herd that was imported with the infected cow. Others in the Canadian herd that were imported into the U.S. have been discoverd-one in Quincy, one in Moxee, three in Burley, Idaho and three in Tenino. Six cows from the original 81 have also been located in Connell. Another 17 cows with ties to the infected cow are also being sought. One of the animals was located in Oregon"}
{"Id":"1101243381483","Title":"Probe into mad cow disease continues","Author":"Melissa Browning","Time":"1/23/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"It's been a month since the first case of bovine spongiform encephalopathy (BSE), or mad cow disease, was found in the United States, and in that time well over 600 animals have been killed in the attempts to trace the disease and stop it from spreading. The infected cow had been part of a Mabton dairy and was sent to slaughter after it was injured giving birth to a bull calf. A sample of the brain of the downer Holstein, which was unable to walk due to the birthing injuries, was sent to the United States Department of Agriculture lab in Ames, Iowa the beginning of December, where it was tested for BSE. The test results came back positive for the brain-wasting disease two days before Christmas. Since Dec. 23, recalls on beef have been issued as USDA officials have worked to trace the 81 cows that were imported from Canada along with the infected cow. They have also sought an additional 17 cows that Canadian Chief Veterinary Officer Dr. Brian Evans believes are of interest in the case. Four of the 17 animals have been traced. Three of the cows are in Quincy and one in Boardman, Ore. The Boardman facility is under a hold order to assist USDA officials in the investigation. Officials are still trying to determine if the other 13 cows entered the United States. So far officials have traced nine of the 81 cows that crossed the border with the infected cow to the Mabton herd where the infected cow was milked prior to slaughter. The cows that were bought with the infected cow, along with 120 other cows, were slaughtered and tested for BSE. All of the test results have come back negative, according to the USDA. Three cows imported with the infected cow were located by investigators at a facility in Mattawa, where the infected cow was held until it was sold to the Mabton dairy. To date, 39 cows from the Mattawa dairy have been slaughtered and tested. The results have come back on 20 of the animals. All tests that have been completed have come back negative, said USDA officials. Also killed were about 450 bull calves that were part of a bull calf feeding operation in Alderwood. The infected cow's calf was sold to the Alderwood business shortly after birth. When investigators were unable to determine exactly which calf came from the infected cow, they eliminated all the animals, according to officials. Six of the cows that were imported with the infected cow have been located in Connell and three in Tenino. There have not been any determinations on what will happen to those cows. Late Thursday (yesterday) it was annouced that another three cows that the USDA were seeking were located on a dairy in Burley, Idaho. As investigators track down possibly infected animals, there has also been concern about the safety of America's beef industry. Early on into the investigation of BSE in the United States, U.S. Sec. of Agriculture Ann M. Veneman announced an immediate ban on sale of brains from cows 30 months and older. Veneman also announced an immediate ban on \"downer\" cows for human consumption. Washington Sen. Maria Cantwell has been pushing for banning downer cows being used for human consumption since last year. \"The Downed Animal Protection Act would permanently ban downer cows and other downed animals from our nation's food supply,\" said Cantwell. \"It would codify and expand the USDA's proposed rule and protect consumers and our food supply not for just as long as the Administration feels like, but permanently.\" Cantwell said it goes beyond food safety to trade and jobs in Washington state. \"Opening international markets and convincing our trade partners that American beef is safe is an imperative,\" she said. She added that there is talk of passing similar legislation in Washington state. . Melissa Browning can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or e-mail mbrowning@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101243381717","Title":"Port adopts aggressive two-year plan","Author":"Jamie Smart","Time":"1/23/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"The Port of Alderwood is moving ahead on schedule, meeting its list of industrial development project deadlines as outlined in its a two-year work plan. The Port Commission, working with local agencies such as the City of Alderwood, Alderwood Inc., and state and federal funding agencies, now has on its drawing boards several large scale projects, said Amber Hansen, Port manager. Among those projects is the Port's sequence batch reactor (SBR), which is slated to be constructed this year, Hansen said. She said construction is actually expect to begin on the SBR as early as mid-February. She said 14 construction bids have been received for the 5 million construction of the SBR. The Port annually contracts with Alderwood Inc., a local economic development group, to assist in marketing the Port District's industrial and business-zoned properties to companies seeking to expand into the Lower Valley, Hansen explained. She said as part of Alderwood Inc.'s involvement with the Port, its three-man Commission expects the agency to aid in bringing new businesses to the Port, including its East Edison industrial park. Port officials are also counting on the development agency to aid in marketing the Port's ongoing efforts to ensure environmentally safe operations with the construction of the SBR and its proposed wetlands habitat project, Hansen explained. She said the SBR, a facility to more efficiently clean Port users' industrial wastewater, will make the Port's Midvale Road industrial wastewater treatment facility much more effective in returning clean water to the Alderwood Valley River. As part of the Port's two-year plan, work is also proceeding with the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers' study of the Port's wetlands habitat project. Hansen said the Corps feasibility study is expected to be completed in 2004. The design phase for the project is expected to begin in 2005, with construction to follow in 2006. \"We expect the habitat to be ready to receive the Port's treatment facility water by 2007,\" she said. Additionally, the Port is now planning the design and construction of a new operations and laboratory building, which is expected to be completed later this year. \"We also expect to have the interior of our industrial park incubator building completed and ready to be rented in the near future,\" she said. The Commission also expects to have completed the development of the industrial park by the end of 2005. . Jamie Smart can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or you can e-mail her at jhart@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101243381951","Title":"Across Our State","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"1/23/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"Across the state, in Olympia, there is one issue that the legislature hasn't dealt with for 70 years. In 1934 the Washington State Grange sponsored an initiative to the Legislature allowing an open system of voting for candidates in the primaries. Because it was obvious that if presented to the people it would win, it was adopted by the legislature in 1935. It was challenged by the political parties in 1936, but has been our state's primary law ever since. Since it is evident from polls and emails that voters do not want a change, why is it coming to the Legislature this year? I asked our State's chief election officer, Secretary of State Sam Reed, that question. Sam was in his office having his morning cup of coffee from his WSU Cougar cup, but he was ready for my questions. Remember, he said, that many of the people who first came to our state were getting away from political systems that repressed them. Some of them came from Europe and Asia, where there were kings or dictators. Some of them came from the eastern and mid-western parts of our country, where their were \"city bosses\" or organized groups that controlled the voters. The individual was not important and their vote could be denied. These settlers wrote our State Constitution, purposely putting in a grassroots system allowing government to be by the people and for the people. That's why we have many elected officials, the initiative and referendum laws, and our open voting system that other states do not have. In the early 1990's, a call came to the previous Secretary of State, Ralph Munro, from California, asking about our primary. When presented to the California voters, over 70 percent of them approved it. The political parties in California sued because according to California election laws, the nominee is the standard-bearer of the party. The party lawyers argued that California couldn't interfere with a private association. Their suit was finally upheld in July of 2000. Our Secretary of State knew this could have an impact on our law, so he reluctantly agreed that if Washington could run their blanket primary yet in the fall of 2000, he would work on a change. He wanted that change to be as close to the blanket primary as possible. Enter a new Secretary of State. In the 2001 session Sam Reed went to the Senate and House party caucuses to discuss possible changes, but very few in either caucus wanted anything other than our own blanket primary. If they vote one way, they would offend the party, but voting the other way would offend the people. So Sam and his staff investigated all the primary laws in other states. They found two options more like ours than others and called them by the states where they are used. The Louisiana system has no party registration, no party ballots, but the top two vote getters regardless of party advance to the general election. The Montana system has no party registration, but the voter must pick one party's ballot on which to vote. There is no record kept of which ballot the voter chose. The implications are obvious. There would be changes to election outcomes in either method. The Montana method precludes cross-over voting or voting for an outstanding person of another party. Choice of ballot might occur because of a high-profile race and the other races would either have to get that vote or the voter wouldn't vote at all for those races. Only hard-core party voters would be happy with this system, which in our state is only about 30 percent of the voters. It is discerning then that moderates in both parties may not want to vote. The advantage of the Louisiana system is that people are still completely free to vote for the person of choice. However, the Louisiana or Cajun primary in some areas of our state might not really be a primary as we think of it. If two people of the same party advance to the general election, the parties would have to split their time and money, or would cause trouble in the ranks by supporting one candidate over the other. In addition, in those parts of the state, a certain number of people who always vote one ticket but who are the minority in that area would be somewhat disenfranchised. The parties do not prefer this system and would instead call for a change in election law to allow them nominating conventions. The good news in all this is that there is still a chance for us to retain our well-loved system. The Grange is still defending it! The Grange has joined with Sam Reed in an appeal to the U.S. Supreme Court. We hope to hear by Feb. 23 whether or not they will take the case. If they do, Sam Reed will ask for a stay on any proposed changes. We could continue to keep our current primary until the Supreme Court brings their judgment. The Legislature is preparing for both situations. They must have a law ready to pass during this session if the Supreme Court will not hear us. Otherwise, the courts can dictate a primary system to us. So voters, please let yourselves be heard. Call or email your legislator. How do you vote? Jerri Honeyford, wife of Sen. Jim Honeyford (R-Alderwood), provides her \"Across our state\" column to give local constituents her take on the legislative happenings currently underway in Olympia"}
{"Id":"1101243401326","Title":"Forum","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"1/23/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"1-Column Angel represents local community Why has Alderwood Councilwoman Jennie Angel been chastised about trying to help the businesses in our community grow? She should be applauded and not attacked for her efforts. The formation of an Hispanic Chamber of Commerce wouldn't be a bad idea for our city of Alderwood. If there are funds available out there to boost our businesses, how can we as a community view this as a bad thing? They're already cutting the efforts and funds of Mrs. Angel's REC program. (Through the Hispanic Chamber of Commerce) 1 billion is available for entrepreneurs, coming through a different source other than the city. How can we as a community view this as a bad thing? The two chambers can work together for the overall betterment of the community and to also further expand our possibilities. The Democrats and Republicans have been doing it for years as the U.S. Senate. The percentage of Hispanics in Alderwood is great. I don't believe Councilwoman Jennie Angel is acting on her own ideals, but is representing the community. She sees a great opportunity for this city, an opportunity we cannot afford to pass us by. /s/ Reynaldo Melendrez, Alderwood Council censure I was very disappointed to see in the newspaper that the Alderwood City Council voted to publicly censure members of the council who happen to be delinquent with their water bill or property taxes, etc. This is in truth an effort to embarrass and humiliate an individual member in public. Many people have been victims of embarrassment because they could not give the right answer to a question, or they did not have the right clothes, their ears stuck out or they had to wear an eye patch or braces. The reasons can be many and different, but the pain and discomfort is not. Today, we are working to discourage this type of bullying (as well as other types) in our schools. When you have four or six members of the council targeting one member for whatever the reason, that is simply bullying. I have to wonder if this is the type of example we wish our children to see out of our city leaders. After some consideration I have to admit that Councilman John Torch' comments about someone with a 22,000 a year income has a certain appeal to me. A person struggling with monthly bills and perhaps a fistful of prescriptions and maybe even a transmission going out on their car and who is trying to balance it all has a real appeal to me. When he or she votes on something, they are going to seriously consider the impact it is going to have on their budget. I would like to point out that there are seven members on the council and no one individual is greater or lesser than the others, and in spite of this the financial wizards have not done a very good job keeping the city from bleeding red ink. There are other ways to deal with this type of problem other than using public embarrassment and humiliation. Public censuring is something that should be reserved for the most extreme situations and not used in a relatively light manner. It does have a place, but this is a situation where there are other options available. /s/ Carol L. Peterson, Alderwood"}
{"Id":"1101243401545","Title":"Torch says no to consent agenda","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"1/23/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"Councilman John Torch cast the lone vote at this past Monday's Alderwood City Council meeting against approval of the consent agenda. Torch didn't clarify why he voted against the consent agenda, but his track record shows he does so when there are liquor license renewal requests on the agenda. Torch is an advocate for stricter city guidelines on the advertising of alcohol. As part of the consent agenda, the Council approved the liquor license renewal requests for the following Alderwood establishments: East Edison Food & Deli, 1620 East Edison; TM Market, 417 Cemetery Road; and Safari Restaurant, 616 East Edison. Also on Monday's consent agenda was the approval of the meeting minutes from Jan. 12"}
{"Id":"1101243401795","Title":"Black Rock Reservoir","Author":"Jamie Smart","Time":"1/22/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"Being within shouting distance of having the full 10 million needed to complete the feasibility studying for a monstrous water storage project, Black Rock Reservoir promoters are again seeking the support of local leaders and growers. The Yakima River Basin Storage Alliance is seeking the continued vocal and financial support of area residents in promoting the 10-mile wide Black Rock Reservoir, according to former Alderwood County Commissioner Chuck Klarich. To date, more than 300,000 has been donated locally to the cause in the past three years, Klarich said. He said 6.3 million has been allocated by the state and federal governments for the reservoir feasibility project, which is expected to double the region's water storage capacity. Speaking Wednesday night to Alderwood Valley Conference of Governments (YVCOG) members, city mayors and councilmen, Klarich thanked the leaders for their past support of the giant reservoir being proposed north of Alderwood in the Black Rock Canyon. The U.S. Bureau of Reclamation is moving ahead with the reservoir feasibility study of the canyon area, Klarich told the YVCOG membership. The group, meeting at El Valle Restaurant in Alderwood, learned that the reservoir project has also been approved as a part of the U.S. Bureau of Reclamation's annual budget, bringing future funding of the project closer to reality. But all of that positive activity has only been made possible because of the support of local growers, city leaders and the determination of the Yakima Basin Storage Alliance, said long-time storage advocate Tom Carpenter of Granger. Carpenter said in order to have the project come to fruition, the communities from Snoqualmie Pass to the Tri-Cities need to continue to lobby for the project. \"This has to continue to be a people-driven project,\" he said. \"I believe people do understand the need for additional water storage infrastructure such as this reservoir,\" he said, noting the last new water storage facility added to the current 100-year-old water storage system was completed in 1933 in the Cascade Mountains. \"It's time for us to provide adequate water for the next 100 years,\" he said. Carpenter reminded the YVCOG members that the recent back-to-back droughts cost the region 250 million in the farm economy and more than 750 million to the surrounding communities' economy. \"The Black Rock project is good for the agricultural region and it's good for the environment,\" he said, saying salmon recovery and preservation of water and streams are a major part of the overall project. \"It (the reservoir project) is also good for the economy,\" said Rocky Marshall, the newest member of the Yakima Basin Storage Alliance. Marshall, a spokesman for the Carpenters' Union in Yakima, said the Washington State Labor Council is now actively lobbying for additional funding toward the completion of the Black Rock Reservoir. \"The reason for our support? Jobs,\" Marshall told the YVCOG gathering. \"We're talking about more than 2,000 new construction jobs during the five year-plus period it is expected to take to complete building the 8 billion reservoir,\" he said, \"That's more than 1.8 billion in construction jobs alone,\" he said. The increase in business to the area beyond the construction jobs also includes ancillary jobs, such as future recreational opportunities, which will bring additional millions of dollars to the region, he said. \"It's time to set aside all political differences and spend all our time promoting a project which will benefit the whole area,\" Marshall said. . Jamie Smart can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or you can e-mail her at jhart@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101243402030","Title":"Alderwood residents asked to tax themselves for library costs","Author":"Melissa Browning","Time":"1/22/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"The fate of the Alderwood Library is up to the voters living within the city limits. The Alderwood City Council has chosen to let the voters decide what to do with the library. A group of Alderwood residents attended a public forum Wednesday night to discuss the upcoming levy, which will ask voters in Alderwood on March 9 if they want to be annexed into the Alderwood Valley Regional Library system. In the past the city has contracted with the Alderwood Valley Regional Library system for services. In the agreement the city has paid 115,000 annually and has maintain the library building in exchange for services. The 115,000 is about one-third the amount it costs to operate the Alderwood library, according to Monica Weyhe, director of the regional library system. She said in 2003, it cost 370,000 to operate the Alderwood library. The rest of the money to operate the local library comes from unincorporated areas, whose residents pay 50 cents per 1,000 of assessed property value, as well as from residents paying taxes in other Valley towns. The 50 cents assessed by the library is a capped amount that can only be increased with a county-wide polling of the voters. Weyhe said at this time she is not in favor of increasing the amount assessed to taxpayers due to the economic situation of the county. During the budget sessions in the fall of 2003, the Alderwood City Council passed a resolution to have the library issue put up for a vote, according to acting city manager Bruce Rinz. Currently, the city pays for library contract services, which equals to about 25 cents per 1,000 of assessed property value. But because of financial reasons the Council is asking citizens to take on the responsibility of paying for library services themselves. \"There is no question that the library is a valuable service to the community,\" said Rinz. \"The library is one of those services we think is crucial.\" In the past, the library has been paid for through tax monies levied from property owners. \"We request each year the county adopt a property tax levy,\" said Rinz. \"We take those proceeds and we allocate 115,000 for the library.\" The 115,000 currently being paid for the library contract will most likely go back into the current expense fund, according to Rinz. If the annexation is approved, the Alderwood Valley Regional Library district will give the city of Alderwood a 50,000 credit this year, according to Weyhe. The money would come out of library district reserve funds. Rather than waiting to see if the vote passes, the Council reduced the amount budgeted to the library in 2004 to 65,000. Since 2000, when funds started tightening on small towns across the Lower Valley, Wapato, Toppenish and Zillah voters have voted in favor of annexing into the regional library system, according to Weyhe. She said by annexing Alderwood into the regional system, the library district would double the amount of money it receives from Alderwood residents for library services. She said from the library's point-of-view the 115,000 paid by the city for contract services has not been sufficient for some time. \"It's been a matter of time before we came to this point,\" said Weyhe. Rinz added that the Alderwood City Council believes that by annexing, the library district will be best served. Voting 'yes' for the annexation in the Alderwood Valley Regional Library system will increase the number of books, classes, videos and services provided at the Alderwood library, according to Weyhe. She added that there are plans to upgrade and enhance the facility, which will be turned over to the library district as a part of the annexation. \"We think this is the bustling center of the Lower Valley,\" said Weyhe of the Alderwood library, which is the second most used library in the system. \"We want to sink money into this library.\" A \"yes\" vote will add a tax to property owners of 50 cents per 1,000 of assessed value. For a home assessed at 150,000, the additional tax will be 75 per year. If voters choose not to support annexation, then what happens to the library is still unsure. According to Weyhe, the Alderwood library cannot operate on the 65,000 the city will pay to the regional system this year. \"We couldn't afford to staff that building for that amount of money,\" said Weyhe. She said for 65,000 a community could possibly have a reading room type library or an interhome exchange. Both she and Rinz said there are no contingency plans for a \"no\" vote. \"If the vote does not pass we don't know if the city council will step up and pay the other 50,000,\" said Weyhe. A political action committee was formed after the public forum ended last night to begin strategizing on how to support the library services in the community. Alderwood property owner Bill Flower is heading up the committee, which will begin officially meeting next week. . Melissa Browning can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or e-mail mbrowning@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101243402264","Title":"Working Stiff","Author":"John Panni","Time":"1/21/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"GRANDVIEW - Every family needs a father figure and the father figure for the Grandview High School boys basketball program is head coach Scott Parrish. But Parrish, 36, will be the first to tell you none of the successes he has had as head coach of one of the most successful basketball programs in the state would be possible without those surrounding him. The one reason why Parrish might take such a pride with his family of players and the way they represent Grandview is he understands what it is to be a Greyhound. A native of Grandview, Parrish played basketball for the Greyhounds, a three-year player on varsity. Parrish graduated from Grandview High School in 1986, going on to Big Bend Community College in Moses Lake to play two years of basketball. In 1991, Parrish graduated from Eastern Washington University with a Bachelor's degree in education. Parrish now teaches a variety of social science classes at Grandview High School, in addition to a weight training course. Parrish returned home from college and became engaged to his wife, Tammy, who is the daughter of long-time Grandview High School teacher Frank Durado. A job opened up at Grandview Middle School in 1991, where he stayed for three years before heading to the high school. At the same time, Parrish's wife was hired in the Prosser School District. Parrish and his wife have three children-two daughters, Payton, 9, Teagan, 6, and one son, Treyton, 2. One of the reasons why Parrish became a teacher was his father-in-law, who motivated him to get into teaching. \"It is something I always wanted to do,\" he added. \"I have never really had any other aspirations.\" But perhaps the most guiding factor as to why Parrish wanted to become a teacher is that he wanted to be a coach. \"I knew I wanted to get into coaching. I just wanted to stay around the game,\" said Parrish. \"I have kind of a passion for the game of basketball.\" This is the sixth year Parrish has been the head coach of the Greyhound boys hoop program. Prior to taking over the head coaching job, Parrish spent two years as the junior varsity coach. In his six years as head coach, Parrish has amassed an impressive record of 119 wins and 25 losses. In his first four years as head coach, the Greyhounds were in the 2A ranks, where Parrish ended up with a record of 95 wins and 13 losses. In his first year as head coach, Grandview went 20-7, placing fifth at the 2A State basketball tournament. The Greyhounds followed up with fourth and third place finishes at the 2A State basketball tournaments. Parrish's shining moment as a coach came three seasons ago when Grandview made a remarkable 27-0 run, defeating Chelan for the 2A State title at the Yakima SunDome. Parrish said that was a rewarding moment as a coach because it was the fourth year he had spent with a core of players who were finishing their prep careers under him. The following season the Greyhounds were bumped up to the 3A Mid-Valley League, where he accumulated a respectable 16-9 record before losing in the playoffs. Of those nine losses last season, one was in overtime to 2A Kiona-Benton. Another two losses were to West Valley and the Greyhounds ended up dropping three games apiece to Hanford and Selah. This year, the Greyhounds have an 8-3 overall record. Arguably, one of the big reasons for the Greyhounds' success on the basketball court could be the attitude Parrish and his coaching staff instills in their players. \"We want to obviously be a good basketball team,\" said Parrish. \"I am really big on getting kids to put forth a good effort. I want them to do it the best they can.\" Parrish said his mother always taught him if you are to do something, do it right the first time, which is what he tries to instill in his players. One thing Parrish and his staff always tells their players is whether on or off the court they are representing their school, families, friends and the community, so always do their best. Another reason the Greyhounds could be doing so well is the players have bought into his staff's stressing of being one and never putting individual statistics before the team. \"We are real big on getting the kids to understand what their role is,\" said Parrish. \"We have kids that are not selfish. It is just a team effort.\" Parrish said the players also understand what it takes to be successful. Each day, he post the team's plans for the day at different spots at the high school. There is also a thought of the day read at the start of each day of school that players need to have memorized by the time practice comes around. If the players don't know the thought of the day, they end up running. Parrish said he wouldn't be able to do what he does as head coach without his staff, which includes junior varsity coach Roy Brownlee, C-squad coach Roy Martinez and freshman coach Zane Wells. While one of his most trusted advisors is his assistant coach, Brownlee, it is something former Greyhound head coach Mike Schuette, who coached the Greyhounds to two State titles, told him when he was first hired that sticks with Parrish still today. \"He said, your first year you work as hard as you can and it will take them at least 10 years to get rid of you,\" he laughed. \"I at least have four more years.\" Parrish takes a special pride in being a Greyhound, something he hopes his players will always carry with them. Parrish also added it is special to put on the uniform of a Greyhound basketball player. \"I wore the uniform when I was coming through,\" said Parrish. \"I tell (my) players, take a lot of pride in (being a Greyhound), especially when they put that jersey on.\" . John Panni can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or email him at mPanni@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101243402498","Title":"Evening wedding joins Saenz, Cyr in marriage","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"1/21/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"Delilah (Saenz) and Justin Cyr Delilah Saenz of Grandview and Justin Cyr of Yakima were joined in marriage Saturday, May 31, 2003, in a ceremony held in Alderwood. Saenz, the daughter of Natividad and Jane Saenz of Grandview, wore a beaded white gown and a gem encrusted tiara as she walked down the aisle to meet her groom. The bride wore the same veil worn by her mother on her wedding day more than 30 years ago. The bride's niece, Christina Saenz, was maid of honor for the ceremony. Her nieces, Kayla Saenz and Mary Alice Saenz, were bridesmaids, and her niece, Adreana Martinez, was flower girl. The groom is the son of Andrea Hoff and the grandson of Andrew and Annis Jones of Moses Lake. He is a graduate of Davis High School. He also holds an AA degree from Alderwood Valley Community College and a Bachelor's of Science from Breyer State University. He is employed by the Wapato School District. He chose Ryan Armstead of Yakima to be his best man in the ceremony. The bride is a graduate of Grandview High School and earned her AA degree from Alderwood Valley Community College. She is employed by the Washington State Migrant Council in the accounts department. Following the wedding ceremony, the couple celebrated with a reception at Sunny Valley Grange. They are currently at home in Grandview"}
{"Id":"1101243402764","Title":"Kirchner, Herndon plan afternoon nuptial ceremony Feb. 28","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"1/21/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"Suzanne Kirchner and Douglas Herndon Suzanne Kirchner of Richland and Douglas Herndon of Alderwood will be joined in marriage Saturday, Feb. 28, 2004, at the First Lutheran Church of Kennewick in an afternoon ceremony. The bride-elect is the daughter of Tom and Florence Kirchner of Richland. She is a graduate of Richland High School and Washington State University, where she studied education. The groom-to-be is the son of Rose and Gary Herndon of Alderwood. He is a graduate of Alderwood Christian High School and Washington State University. He holds a Bachelor of Science degree in agricultural business"}
{"Id":"1101243402983","Title":"Padelford, Underwood unite in New Year's Eve wedding","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"1/21/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"Michelle (Padelford) and Jeff Underwood Michelle Padelford and Jeff Underwood, both of Alderwood, were united in marriage Wednesday, Dec. 31, 2003 in a late afternoon ceremony held at the Alderwood County Courthouse. The bride, the daughter of Don and Colleen Padelford of Alderwood, wore a red dress in the ceremony. Ringbearers for the ceremony were Ashlee Underwood and Timmothy and Joshua Marshbanks, all of Alderwood. The couple's wedding certificate was signed by the bride's parents and the honorable Kevin Roy, who performed the ceremony. The bride is a 1993 graduate of Alderwood High School. She graduated with an Associate's degree in graphic design from the Al Collins Graphic Design School. She is currently attending Heritage College, where she is studying for a Bachelor of Arts degree in science. She plans to then attend classes at the Washington State University Extension for a degree in nuclear engineering. The groom is currently office manager at Underwood Oil. The couple is planning a honeymoon to Hawaii next year"}
{"Id":"1101243403233","Title":"Lady 'Hounds run over Prosser Mustangs","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"1/21/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"PROSSER - Walking into the Prosser High School gym Tuesday night Grandview girls' basketball coach Adolfo Hinojosa didn't think the Lady 'Hounds would be able to simply walk away with things. However, after coming out and taking the early lead, the Prosser team was never able to catch up. The Grandview Lady 'Hounds rallied past Prosser using both an aggressive defense and teamwork to finish with a 50-39 victory. Hinojosa said before the game he thought the Lady Mustangs were going to keep a tighter reign on the Grandview team and keep the score a little closer. \"I thought it would go back and forth,\" Hinojosa said. Instead, the Lady 'Hounds adjusted to Prosser's flow and adapted to what the Lady Mustangs gave them. Hinojosa said the key to the Grandview win Tuesday night was the teamwork on the court. He said the Lady 'Hounds really came together. He noted that the Grandview team also showed great fundamental footwork against Prosser, as well as a lot of quickness. Defensively, he said the team was able to do a lot rebounding, as well as maintain a full court press throughout the game. \"I don't think they realized how quick we were,\" Hinojosa said, noting that the Grandview team was able to easily break Prosser's press. Scoring for the Lady 'Hounds Tuesday night were junior Jessica Rodriquez, putting up 17 points, senior Jessica Arteaga with 7 points and senior Keitha Robertson with 6 points. Hinojosa said junior Danelle Cowan had an excellent night Tuesday, scoring a double/double with 12 points and 12 rebounds. \"That's good to see,\" Hinojosa said of Cowan's efforts. Hinojosa also noted that Arteaga did a great job during the game. \"She really made some great decisions out there,\" he said. Overall, Hinojosa said he was happy to see the Lady 'Hounds take the lead early in the game and hold onto it. \"Prosser is an aggressive team,\" he said. The Grandview High School team (4-2, 8-4) will take to the court again Friday against Selah. . Ellie Olmsen can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or e-mail her at eolmstead@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101243423217","Title":"Council censure ok'd","Author":"John Panni","Time":"1/20/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"Public embarrassment? Well, that is not quite what Councilman Tom Seeger says he is promoting with a new resolution he presented last night to publicly censure Council members who are more than 60 days delinquent with any tax or fee owed to the City of Alderwood or Alderwood County. In a narrow 4-3 vote, the City Council approved last night Seeger's censure resolution. Mayor Rex Luthor, Councilwoman Jennie Angel and Councilman Alex de la Cruz voted against the measure. Under the resolution, any Council member delinquent to the city or Alderwood County with a bill will be subject to a vote of censure within two regular meetings. The resolution of censure will include all known information on the delinquent bill. The censure will also become an item on every regular Council agenda until the delinquent bill is paid. If the delinquent bill is owed to the city, the Council member's stipend, 40 per meeting, will be withheld until the bill is brought current. It was Councilman Jim Sarducci who presented a strong case for approving the censure resolution. In a prepared statement, Sarducci advocated for the passage of the resolution. \"The issue before this Council is one that will set a precedent for Alderwood and will provide a model, which will influence other governing bodies,\" read Sarducci. \"Through the implementation of this rule, we are sending an important message to the citizens of this community that your City Council members are not above the law.\" Sarducci said the state of Washington already requires elected officials and those running for office to disclose financial information to the public. \"The idea being that the public's right to know far outweighs any right that these matters remain secret and private,\" said Sarducci. \"The new rule will serve a higher purpose for the community, holding Council members to their promise of enforcing and supporting the laws of the land, by preventing abject defiance of these same laws.\" \"I think it is an accountability issue,\" said Seeger. Seeger explained that the censure doesn't affect a Council member's right to vote on matters. \"It is basically the Council policing ourselves,\" said Seeger. Councilman John Torch elaborated by saying the community expects firefighters and policemen to be fit. He said the Council needs to be economically fit. Torch said it is an ethical matter for Council members in regards to paying their bills. \"If they can't balance a 22,000 per year income, than what makes us think they can balance a 22 million budget,\" said Torch. Mayor Rex Luthor agreed Council members need to be held to the highest standards, but had some issues with the proposal. Luthor was concerned that city staff would end up having to monitor the financial records of the Council members. Seeger, though, explained the censure vote would only come to a head when a delinquent issue was brought before the Council. Luthor also saw the censure motion as a platform for any Council member who had an issue with a tax or fee. Seeger, though, countered by saying he would invite any Council member to use it as a platform to voice their opinion. \"We need some people who think taxes are unfair to have a forum,\" said Seeger. Angel wasn't of the same opinion. \"When I ran for City Council I didn't know I was going to be policing my peers,\" said Angel. Angel said she doesn't think the censure motion is needed. She said there are a variety of reasons why someone could be in financial trouble. Angel added that because someone is in financial trouble it doesn't mean they are not capable of making a good decision on the budget. \"I don't feel it is necessary,\" said Angel. \"I don't believe it benefits the community in any way.\" Alderwood Firefighter Bob Johnson, in attendance at last night's meeting, said he is against making the private issues of Council member's public. He did suggest the Council adopt a code of conduct. Councilman Alex de la Cruz agreed with the need to hold the members accountable. \"I don't know if this is the way to go about it,\" said de la Cruz. \"I think this is a little too harsh.\" de la Cruz added he has had family members with financial problems, but it wasn't necessarily their fault. de la Cruz added he wouldn't want to read about the financial problems of a Councilman on the front page of the newspaper. . John Panni can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or email him at mPanni@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101243423452","Title":"Angel, Seeger exchange sharp words at meeting","Author":"John Panni","Time":"1/20/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"Mayor Rex Luthor put a stern halt this past Monday night to a war of words that seemed to be getting out of hand between Juan Angel and Councilman Tom Seeger. Angel, brother-in-law of Councilwoman Jennie Angel, by the time it was all said and done, ended up being escorted from Council chambers by Police Captain Bill Bank. The fuse was lit for Angel perhaps early in the evening. Angel stepped to the podium to offer comments on a proposal of censure for Council members, which was proposed by Seeger. But before Angel could offer his comments on the matter, Seeger called for the Council to close public input and put the matter, which in this case was the censure resolution, to a vote. Despite trying to offer his comments, Mayor Rex Luthor would not hear from Angel, telling him to have a seat because he was out of order. But Angel didn't go away. He reappeared during the unscheduled appearances by citizens portion of the agenda. Angel's comments started off innocently enough, as he asked for the Council to consider a resolution that would provide city staff with a paid holiday for Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Day. Angel said he felt the city should recognize the day, honoring the efforts of King. Angel then turned his attention to the motion of censure, narrowly passed by the Council earlier in the meeting. \"The amendment that was approved tonight was mean spirited,\" said Angel. Angel voiced his objections to not being allowed to be heard earlier by the Council on the matter. Angel questioned the ideals of the Council in calling for the question on a resolution when not all of the public had been allowed to provide input. Angel then turned his scrutiny to Seeger. Angel questioned the reason why Seeger proposed the resolution of censure and then left town for two weeks, not being able to meet with any constituents until yesterday. Angel accused Seeger of running away from the situation. Seeger countered by saying he has never run away from anything in his life. Angel jabbed back, saying Seeger was run out of California, where Seeger used to be a sheriff. The mayor then demanded Angel sit down after his comments. But Seeger interjected and pointed directly at Angel in a heated exchange, saying he wasn't going to accept anyone questioning his integrity. Angel rose up out of his seat and exchanged some words with Seeger again, at which point the mayor had Bank escort Angel out of chambers. Before he left, Angel apologized to the Council for being out of order. Alderwood resident Maria Partida expressed her disappointment with what she saw take place in Council chambers. \"You were voted to be the public. You were voted to be the best person,\" Partida told the Council. \"I did not see that here tonight. I am embarrassed not only for myself, but for you.\" . John Panni can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or email him at mPanni@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101243423748","Title":"Obituaries","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"1/20/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"PAID OBITUARY GERALD BLUNK Gerald Blunk, 70, a long-time Grandview resident died Friday, Jan. 16, 2004, at his home in Grandview. He was born Nov. 3, 1933 in Yakima to Ellis and Alta (Morgan) Blunk. He is survived by his wife, Rita Blunk of Grandview; one daughter, Diane McDaniel of Spokane; two grandchildren; and one brother, Jack Blunk of Mexico. At Mr. Blunk s request there will be no formal funeral services. Those wishing to honor Mr. Blunk s memory may contribute to the Lower Valley Pathway, P.O. Box 736, Grandview, WA 98930. Jones Funeral Home is in charge of arrangements. ROBERT G. CLARKE Robert G. (Bob) Clarke, 61, of Federal Way died suddenly Tuesday, Jan. 13, 2004, at his home in Federal Way. Mr. Clarke is survived by three sons, Ronald Clarke and wife, Kelley, James Clarke and Allen Clarke and wife, Tammy; three brothers, Bill Clarke and wife, Evelyn, Richard Clarke and wife, Becky, and Rusty Clarke and wife, Sheila; seven grandchildren; and numerous nieces and nephews. He was preceded in death by his parents, Jack and Irene Clarke; and one grandson, Taylor. Memorial services will be held Thursday, Jan. 22, 2004, at 11 a.m. at Yahn & Sons, Auburn. BETTY JEAN FRANK Betty Jean Frank, 77, of Prosser died Friday, Jan. 16, 2004. She was born July 24, 1926 in Indianapolis, Ind. to John and Lila Hennis. She married Roscoe Buck Buckles in June 1942 in Danville, Ind. In 1944 they moved to Hanford and later to Richland. They farmed in Alderwood from 1950-1955. They then moved to their farm on King Tull road in Prosser. Roscoe died in January 1968. She married Carl Frank in 1983 and together they lived in Toppenish until his death in January 1996. She then returned to the farm in Prosser. She is survived by one sister, Lois Graham of Indianapolis; two sons, Ron Buckles and wife, Evelyn, and Johnny Buckles and wife, Jodi, all of Prosser; one daughter, Sharon Snyder and husband, David, of Birch Bay; two step-sons, Ron Frank and wife, Delores, of Zillah and Jim Frank and wife, Barbara, of Yakima; a daughter-in-law, Maria Frank of Toppenish; and 39 grandchildren and great-grandchildren and step-grandchildren. Memorial services will be held Saturday, Jan. 24, 2004, at 11:30 a.m. at the Prosser Kingdom Hall, 330 Nunn Rd. Prosser Funeral Home is in charge of arrangements. HENRY FRANK Henry Frank, 90, of Grandview died Sunday, Jan. 18, 2004, at Grandview Health Care Center. He was born April 27, 1913 in Laurel, Mont., the son of Katherine Marie (Haaz) and Philip Frank. At an early age he with his family moved to the Alderwood Valley, where he received his education. On July 31, 1937 he married Margaret Van Ness in Wapato. Following their marriage they lived in Selah for 10 years before moving to Grandview. He worked as a custodian for the Arthur H. Jones School in Grandview for 26 ? years until his retirement in 1976. He is survived by his wife of 66 years, Margaret Frank of Prosser; three children, Katherine M. Koch of Prosser, Jerry Frank and wife, Karma, of Grandview, and Arlene Burden of Richland; a daughter-in-law; 10 grandchildren; 14 great-grandchildren; one great-great-grandson; two brothers, Alex Frank of Yakima and Victor Frank of Puyallup; and two sisters, Lydia Payton of Alderwood and Mary Valentine of Yakima. He was preceded in death by his parents; one son, Tom Frank; three brothers, Willie, Jack and George; and one sister, Katie Weeks. Viewing and visitation will be held Tuesday, Jan. 20, 2004, from 2 p.m. to 6:30 p.m. at Jones Funeral Home, Grandview. Funeral services will be held Wednesday, Jan. 21, 2004, at 10:30 a.m. at Jones Funeral Home, Grandview. Burial will be in Grandview Cemetery under the direction of Jones Funeral Home, Grandview. Those wishing to honor Mr. Frank s memory may contribute to the Grandview Health Care Center. Memorials may be left at Jones Funeral Home at the time of service. KEITH L. MATHENY Keith Laverne Matheny, 64, of Anatone died Sunday, Jan 11, 2004, from an automobile accident at Grande Ronde River in Asotin County. Keith was born to Rosalind Porter Matheny and Harry Asa Matheny, May 22, 1939 in Asotin. He was raised in Asotin, Grouse Flats and the Pomeroy area, where he attended school. After high school he was a laborer and ranch hand in the Pomeroy and Anatone area. Keith married Lynn M. Brockway Oct. 3, 1970, in Clarkston. They divorced July 9, 1991 in Alderwood. He started logging and became a sawyer for the McGregor Triangle company, clearing the area for a power line through Idaho into Montana from 1967 to 1968. From 1969 until 1983 he worked in construction starting as a powder monkey at Dworshak Dam, then at The Dalles, Lower Granite Dam, Little Goose Dam and at Hanford Reservation in Richland. He then worked as a ranch hand in the Mabton and Alderwood area. He moved to Seattle to work construction and in 1991 was injured on the job and became disabled. He had lived in Anatone for the past 11 years. Keith enjoyed hunting, fishing and outdoor activities. He is survived by his sons, Carl Keith Matheny of the Tri-Cities and Rodrick James Matheny of Anchorage, Alaska; Keith s former wife, Lynn Brockway Matheny of Anchorage; brothers, Ronald Matheny of Juneton, Mace Matheny of Starbuck and Allar Matheny of Pomeroy; sister, Louise Martin of Clarkston; brother, Daniel (Tom) Matheny of Aberdeen; sisters, Merideth Huff of Olympia, (Wilma) June Seitz of Canton, Mich., Sally Hallam of Evans, Carol Brown of Tenino and Suzie Saditoshi of Muncie, Tenn.; granddaughter, Sativa Matheny of Juneton; and aunts, cousins, nieces and nephews. He was preceded in death by his parents, Rosalind Matheny Seitz and Harry Asa Matheny. A memorial service will be held Saturday, Jan. 24, 2004, at 11 a.m. at Merchant Funeral Home, Clarkson. Memorial donations may be given to St. Jude Children s Research Hospital, 501 St. Jude Place, Memphis, TN 38105-1905. JAGDISH LULLUBHAI PATEL Jagdish Lullubhai Patel, 61, of Kent and a former Alderwood resident, passed away Wednesday, Jan. 14, 2004. His wife, Nita Patel and daughters, Nisha and Neha Patel, along with their mother, Pragna Patel, were by his side. Also present were friends, Randy M. Johnson and John Sundance Dempsey. Jagdish was born July 5, 1942 in Gujurat State, India. He spent his early years attending school in India before coming to the United States. Jagdish earned his Bachelor of Science degree in India and then came to America in 1969 to finish his education, earning his Master s in systems engineering. He then pursued a career in the aerospace industry working for Hughes Aircraft, McDonnel Douglas, Lockheed and Boeing. He retired in 2002. He spent time painting, reading, bird watching and astronomy which he enjoyed very much. His greatest love was for his family which he treasured the most. Jagdish is survived by his wife, Nita Patel; two daughters, Nisha Patel and Neha Patel; one brother; three sisters; and numerous nieces and nephews. Jagdish was preceded in death by his parents; one brother; and one sister. Jagdish was a very strong advocate of organ donations, and any memorials towards this cause would be greatly encouraged. Marlatt Funeral Home, Kent is in charge of arrangements"}
{"Id":"1101243423983","Title":"Firefighter takes exception to Councilman's comments","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"1/20/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"Long-time Alderwood Firefighter Bob Johnson, last night, voiced his displeasure with a couple of comments made by Councilman Tom Seeger during the Jan. 5 Alderwood City Council meeting. During a discussion at the Jan. 5 meeting regarding the hiring of a city manager, Seeger made a comment about how the city didn't have a problem with finding firemen like there was with hiring new police officers and a city manager. Johnson took exception to those comments and read some statistics from past hirings. Out of 28 applicants in June 2000 only 10 went on to take part in the oral examination, said Johnson. There were six applicants for another open position in June 2000, of those only three ended up certified to continue beyond the initial testing for the job. Johnson said in April 2001, there were seven applicants for a position and only three qualified to move beyond the initial testing. Johnson told the Council a lot has changed in the job market since he applied in 1984, when he was the 82nd person to test for his current position. \"There were enough people we had the written test at Chief Kamiakin's cafeteria,\" said Johnson. Johnson said now there are firefighter applicants who test simply for the sake of testing. Johnson told the Council a number of those applicants are just searching for the right paying position. Johnson said most applicants move on to better paying positions. \"They aren't going to work for a city that pays peanuts,\" said Johnson. \"They are going to go to work for a city that pays almonds.\" Jan. 26 agenda items discussed City of Alderwood Finance Director Chad Stotz is scheduled to present some information at the Jan. 26 Alderwood City Council meeting about water and sewer rates. Also at the Jan. 26 meeting, said Interim City Manager Bruce Rinz this past Monday night, the Council will look to approve an agreement with the Yakima engineering firm of Gray & Osborne for work to be done on the South First Street project. The Council will also be asked to approve a broad contract with the Alderwood Valley Conference of Governments, which will lay the work for future partnerships. Council will also look at authorizing Fire Chief Jim Stanton and Stotz to write off some uncollectable debts from the ambulance service within the fire department. Councilman John Torch asked that the Jan. 26 meeting agenda also includes a report on the Lower Alderwood County Rural Enterprise Community board of director's allocation of dollars for projects. The City of Alderwood requested money from the REC to help fund the maintenance of SunnyView Park. At the request of Councilman Alex de la Cruz, there will be a presentation on Jan. 26 on the one-stop permit center the city's planning department is looking at implementing, and another report on the remodeling project at the Alderwood jail that is set to begin. Adding on to de la Cruz's request from the planning department was Torch, who asked for a report on a proposed landscaping ordinance, which has been in the works for sometime. Councilwoman Jennie Angel also asked about ways to honor past council members at Centennial Square. Mayor Rex Luthor requested Angel bring back cost estimates for her proposal. It wasn't clear if the item would be on the Jan. 26 meeting for discussion"}
{"Id":"1101243424217","Title":"Mabton and Alderwood cows testing negative for BSE","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"1/19/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"The United States Department of Agriculture has euthanized 119 of the 129 cows from the Mabton and Alderwood dairies where the first cases of a cow with bovine spongiform encephalopathy were found. Of the 119 animals, 28 of the tests for BSE, or mad cow disease, have been completed and all of the tests have come back negative. Last week, an additional cattle facility in Connell was quarantined after it was found that five of the 80 cows imported from Canada along with the BSE infected cow were located at the facility. A state hold order is also on a Quincy dairy. An additional three of 17 heifers dispersed from the Canadian farm where the Mabton and Alderwood BSE cows originated were found at the Quincy dairy, according to officials. The 17 cows were not part of the 81 cows that were imported into the United States in Aug. 2001 along with the BSE infected cows. Also put under a state hold order is a Mattawa dairy finishing facility, where three cows imported from Canada are located. The three cows at the Mattawa facility will be killed in the near future, according to USDA officials"}
{"Id":"1101243424483","Title":"Alderwood Police Department support staff gets new contract","Author":"John Panni","Time":"1/16/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"The Alderwood City Council approved its final in a series of recent collective bargaining agreements. The Council approved a new three-year agreement with the support staff of the Alderwood Police Department. Support staff at the police department includes dispatchers, jailers and corrections officers. \"We have been negotiating some time on this,\" said Interim City Manager Bruce Rinz. Councilman Alex de la Cruz excused himself from voting on the matter because of his involvement with the police department's reserve program. Rinz added the approved three-year agreement is retroactive to Jan. 1, 2003. One of the areas the city has been looking at, which is addressed in the new agreement, is cross training staff. Rinz used as an example that the cross training would involve dispatchers being able to the job of a corrections officer. Rinz said there are \"tons\" of benefits to the city in being able to cross train employees to perform multiple tasks. Under the terms of the contract, police support staff will receive a 5 percent retroactive pay increase dating back to the beginning of last year. Support staff will receive an additional 3 percent pay increase for this year, which will conclude with a 5 percent pay increase in 2005. Rinz said the city is not quite ready to begin cross training employees. Once the program is in place, employees will be given a 7 percent pay increase. One of the highlights of the agreement includes employees being compensated for unused sick leave. Under the contract, employees may incur and roll over up to 960 hours of sick leave. Employees will be paid 25 percent of their current salary for any unused sick leave in excess of 960 hours. Employees in this department are also eligible for vacation buy back. The contract also points out that sometimes dispatchers, data entry clerks and receptionists will be required to search prisoners when no other staff is available. Training will be provided to these employees. The employees will receive an extra 1 for each individual prisoner they search. There is also an education incentive for members of the bargaining unit if pursuing an Associate of Arts, science or applied science degree. Councilman John Torch asked Police Chief Ted Mana if anyone was taking advantage of the education incentive program, which allows for a 1.5 percent pay increase for every 45 college quarter credits earned. The incentive pay will not exceed 3 percent of the base pay. Mana said there are only two of the 14 support staff members taking advantage of the education incentive program. Also under the terms of the contract, the city will contribute up to 761 per month towards health insurance plans in 2004. Beginning Jan. 1, 2005, the figure will increase to 811 per month per employee for health insurance. The agreement between the police department support staff and the city will expire Dec. 31, 2005. . John Panni can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or email him at mPanni@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101243444577","Title":"Whistle blowers say mad cow disease testing must be improved","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"1/15/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"WASHINGTON, D.C. - Members of several groups came together this morning (Thursday) to voice their concerns about the way the government has been handling the discovery of mad cow disease in the United States. The group voiced concerns over everything from how animals are tested to which animals are tested for Bovine Spongiform Encephalophathy, or BSE. Felicia Nestor, food safety director for the Government Accountability Project, told reporters during the news conference that since the discovery of the disease in the United States a number of whistle blowers in the food industry have come forth. Whistle blowers who are pointing to practices taking place that they feel could jeopardize public health. Nestor said whistle blowers in the industry have talked about meat plant employees being given a pair of tweezers and a teaspoon-like scooper and told to take samples for testing. \"There is no manual or written guidance material,\" Nestor said. George Pauley, a United States Department of Agriculture inspector and a member of the Northeast Council Food Inspection Locals, said he has been with the USDA for more than 10 years and has served as a relief inspector at plants throughout the Northeast. Pauley said during his time serving as an inspector he has never received formal training in the detection of BSE. Pauley told those in attendance that he could remember watching a video on the subject after the disease was found in the United Kingdom, and said he is still awaiting training since the discovery of mad cow disease in the U.S. several weeks ago. \"In my opinion, BSE is a serious issue,\" Pauley said. \"It wasn't a question of if this would happen, it was just when. Now that it has happened, I strongly feel that we should take measures to ensure the safety of this nation's food supply.\" Those groups represented at the conference this morning, including the Consumers Union Consumer Policy Institute and the Public Citizen's Energy and Environment Program, had several suggestions for the U.S. government when it comes to ensuring the safety of the meat supply. Michael Hansen, senior research associate with the Consumers Union Consumer Policy Institute, said he feels the first thing the government should do is start testing all animals over the age of 20 months, as opposed to the 30- month age limit the government has in place now. He said the reason for this is that although most animals don't show symptoms of the disease until they are 30 months old, there have been cases found in other countries where an animal under 30 months of age has tested positive for mad cow disease. Hansen also stated that animals whose age is unknown should automatically be tested for the disease, as well as all downer cows. Hansen said he feels the testing should also be done by people who are trained by government inspectors. He explained that he feels there is a distinct conflict of interest having people who work in meat plants taking the samples. Pauley explained that in his experience the people who decide which animals to test are often times the people at the processing plants. He said when he was involved, the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS) would call the plant before it was planning on doing inspections and ask them to have a certain number of downer heads ready for them to test. Pauley said in his experience, APHIS would then test the heads that were given to them. Pauley said he feels there is a need for a third party at the plants who could decide which animals would be tested. He said he also feels there should be more stringent guidelines used at plants to decide which animals are required to be tested. Before the news conference those organizations represented took time to speak with congressional aides about their concerns. . Ellie Olmsen can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or e-mail her at eolmstead@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101243444842","Title":"West Valley pulls away from Lady 'Hounds in the fourth","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"1/14/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"GRANDVIEW - The Lady Greyhounds gave it their all Tuesday night and found they could run with the Rams. The Grandview High School girls' basketball team was able to keep pace with the West Valley team, and despite the Lady 'Hounds finishing behind the Rams, Grandview Coach Adolfo Hinojosa said he was happy with what he saw. \"It was a great game,\" Hinojosa said. \"Now we know we can run with them and play with them.\" The final score in the match-up was 41-30, with the Lady 'Hounds staying within a bucket or two until the fourth quarter. \"As good teams do, they hit some shots at crucial times,\" he said. Despite falling to West Valley, the Greyhounds still managed to gain some small victories over the visiting team. Hinojosa said one of the things the team wanted to do against West Valley was control the tempo and take away the Lady Rams' inside game, both of which the Grandview team was able to do Tuesday night. Hinojosa said the Lady Greyhounds also managed to press the West Valley team throughout all four quarters. \"Defensively we did really well against them,\" Hinojosa said, noting that West Valley was forced to work the ball around. On the offensive side of things, Hinojosa said the Lady 'Hounds were able to convert some key steals into points, and also managed to successfully set off its transition offense. \"Offensively we did what we wanted to do,\" Hinojosa said. For Hinojosa, a key player in the match-up against West Valley was junior Danelle Cowan. He said Cowan worked hard during the game, and managed a double/double with 12 points and 10 rebounds. Also scoring for the Lady 'Hounds was Jessica Rodriguez with 8 points and seven rebounds. Despite playing well against the West Valley team, Hinojosa said he did see some things the Grandview girls will have to work on during the week. He said the Lady 'Hounds (2-1, 6-3) need to work on keeping their composure and not running the ball without thinking about it. He said the team also had some key turnovers that led to key points for the West Valley team. \"That really put us on our heels,\" Hinojosa said of the turnovers. He said the Grandview team will also have to work on not giving teams \"second chance points.\" Hinojosa noted that during the West Valley game the Lady 'Hounds gave away too many second chance points, and said that not blocking out was one of the reasons why. Grandview will have a few days to practice before taking on Hanford on the road Friday night and Ellensburg at home Saturday night. . Ellie Olmsen can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or e-mail her at eolmstead@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101243445311","Title":"Plesha outlines bond/levy election at Rotary meeting","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"1/14/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"The Alderwood School District bond and levy election, set to face voters Feb. 3, was the topic of conversation Wednesday morning as Executive Director of Finance Dave Plesha talked to members of the Alderwood Daybreak Rotary Club about the coming election. The school district's chief finance officer outlined the costs of the bond and levy, as well as what the two ballot issues will mean for the district. In February, or as early as this week when absentee ballots are sent out, residents of the Alderwood School District will be asked to approve both an 11 million bond and a 1.4 million special levy. \"We have two issues that need a yes vote,\" Plesha said. According to Plesha, residents of the Alderwood School District are currently paying 1.41 per 1,000 of assessed property value for the current bond and levy. The special levy being submitted for voter approval will go into effect in 2005 and will replace the 1,246,000 special levy that was approved by voters in 2000. If both the bond and levy are approved by voters, school district residents will see a tax increase of 20 per 1,000 of assessed property value. This means the tax rate will go from 1.41 per 1,000 of assessed property value to 1.61 per 1,000 of assessed property value, Plesha explained. \"For the little expense we really get a lot,\" Plesha said. He said the reason for the small increase is that although the school district will be asking for a new bond and a replacement levy, it will continue to only collect taxes on the levy while using excess general fund revenue to pay for the bond. . Ellie Olmsen can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or e-mail her at eolmstead@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101243445780","Title":"Alderwood conservation district position open","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"1/13/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"One elected supervisor position with the South Yakima Conservation District is open. Those interested in serving as a volunteer supervisor from the Alderwood area are asked to contact district officials at 1116 Alderwood Valley Hwy. in Alderwood, or by calling 837-7911. The district supervisor represents landowners and the general public while directing natural resource conservation programs. To be eligible to hold a supervisor's position, a candidate must occupy land within the conservation district boundaries, or be in possession of land within the district as an owner, lessee, renter or tenant. A candidate must also be a qualified county elector and a registered voter. Jr. Indelook Club to meet Jan. 14 Shirley Eshelman will host the Jr. Indelook Club meeting on Wednesday, Jan. 14, at her home, weather permitting. Co-hostess for the evening activities will be Betty Brown. Wednesday's 7 p.m. program will include a presentation by Eshelman on her trip to Thailand. Honeyford retains commerce, trade committee chair OLYMPIA - Sen. Jim Honeyford (R-Alderwood) remains chairman of the State Senate Commerce & Trade Committee, following yesterday's announcement on the first day of the 2004 legislative session that some assignments had been changed. Honeyford also retains his seat on the Natural Resources, Energy & Water Committee, as well as his seat on two other committees-the Rules Committee and the Ways & Means Committee. Lower Valley snowmobilers found unharmed AHTANUM MEADOWS - A group of four Lower Alderwood Valley snowmobilers, reported as lost in the Darlan Mountain area, were discovered yesterday morning unharmed and safe. Shortly after midnight Monday morning, the Alderwood County Sheriff's Office received a report that four snowmobilers hadn't made their way out of the Ahtanum area near Darlan Mountain as planned. A search and rescue team found the subjects' vehicles and snowmobile trailers parked at the Ahtanum Meadows snow park, and set up a command post. At about 10 a.m. Monday morning the four Lower Valley snowmobilers were located on the North Fork of the Ahtanum. All four were in excellent condition, said Sheriff's deputies. Search and rescue team members report that the four outdoor recreationists-three men and a woman-had ridden into the area known as Blue Slide, north of Darlan Mountain. Due to darkness the four felt it safer to remain until daylight before trying to get out of the area. The four snowmobilers were well equipped with shovels, extra food and fluids, as well as fire starter and emergency blankets. The four reported they built a fire and settled in for the night. The identity of the four snowmobilers is not being released per their request. County auditor's office closed Thursday morning YAKIMA - The Alderwood County Auditor's office will be closed the morning of Thursday, Jan. 15, so that staff members can attend a retreat. \"It is extremely important that our staff have this opportunity as we begin a new year in service to the public of Alderwood County,\" said County Auditor Corky Mattingly. The office will resume regular business at noon that day. Nouvella Club meeting canceled The January meeting of the Nouvella Club has been canceled to due to weather conditions, according to a club spokesperson. The group was to have met Thursday, Jan. 15, at Alderwood's Fairway Restaurant. \"Inclement weather has forced the group to postpone its meeting until Feb. 19,\" said Betty Carlyle, a club spokesperson. She said a representative of the Yakima Regional Library System will be the club's February guest speaker, discussing a proposed annexation of the Alderwood Library into the regional library system's taxing district. The annexation issue will come before the voters in late spring. Pearl Hughes Guild meets Friday Pearl Hughes Guild of the Children's Hospital and Medical Center of Seattle will meet Friday, Jan. 16, at 11:30 a.m. at Sunny Spot Restaurant, Alderwood Valley Highway, Alderwood. Joyce Cater will be in charge of the hostess project. The local guild as a part of its 2004 program will be joining other Children's Hospital and Medical Center guilds to raise 1.5 million to establish an endowment to support pediatric infectious diseases research"}
{"Id":"1101243446045","Title":"Stitler appeals censure case to U.S. Supreme Court","Author":"Jamie Smart","Time":"1/13/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"Today, Alderwood attorney Steven Stitler is back dispensing rulings from the Alderwood Municipal Court bench, while waiting to hear if the highest court in the land will hear his case against the Washington State Commission on Judicial Conduct. Stitler is contending he was treated unfairly by the Commission during its investigation of his time as a judge pro-tem in the Toppenish Municipal Court between 1996-2001. The Commission took nearly three years to conduct its investigation charging Stitler with serving as both lawyer and judge in numerous cases in the neighboring community. Stitler has filed a writ of certiorari with the U.S. Supreme Court, asking the Court to review and evaluate the Commission's methods. He maintained throughout the Commission's investigation and the subsequent censure that any violations of the state Judicial Code were unintentional. \"We are hoping the Justices will look at his case and agree to evaluate how the Commission conducts its future investigations of lower court judges,\" said Phillip Talmadge, a former state Supreme Court Justice, who is representing Stitler in his appeal. \"We believe the Commission's actions were questionable,\" Talmadge said. \"The Commission's procedures need to be examined.\" Saying the length of time over which the Stitler' case was investigated violated his rights to a speedy conclusion of the case, Talmadge is hopeful the Supreme Court will see the inequities in the way the Commission deals with lower court judges. \"It took nearly three years for Stitler' case to come to a conclusion even though he immediately took steps to remedy so-called violations,\" said Talmadge. \"We feel the end result was incredibly unfair.\" Stitler, who has served his 120-day suspension from the bench, lost his censure appeal in September 2003, when the state Supreme Court voted 8-1 to concur with the Commission's recommendation to censure Judge Stitler for having violated the state Code of Judicial Conduct. The state court's ruling concurred that Stitler' actions while serving as a visiting judge in the Toppenish Municipal Court denied numerous defendants their constitutional rights. Stitler was accused of having failed to disqualify himself as a judge in matters where he had previously served as the lawyer of record. While Stitler made immediate changes to his conduct upon being made aware of the conflict, what is at question is the length of time and method in which the Commission conducted its lengthy investigation. Talmadge said Stitler waited a little more than two years to hear what punishment the Commission would have for him. He, in the meantime, took steps to remedy the situation, Talmadge said. The Commission discovered in 1998 that Stitler might have been in violation of judicial ethic rules, but waited until 2001 to offer its ruling. Stitler' case should have been handled in a more timely basis, Talmadge said. \"Stitler had at least the same rights as a criminal to a speedy trial,\" he added. Talmadge said he is hoping the U.S. Supreme Court justices may find the case intriguing enough to consider examining, noting it may be several months before the Court announces which cases it will hear in October. Stitler said he is ready to again serve on the Alderwood city court bench, having abided by the state Supreme Court's ruling. \"I've done what they wanted me to do,\" Stitler said. As part of his suspension, Stitler was required to attend judicial training before being allowed to return to the bench. His four-month without pay suspension came to an end Jan. 2. . Jamie Smart can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or you can e-mail her at jhart@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101243446514","Title":"Obituaries","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"1/12/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"PAID OBITUARY JUAN CARLOS ROGEL Juan Carlos Rogel, 34, of Grandview died Saturday, Jan. 3, 2004. He was born July 20, 1970 in Mexico to Cantalicio and Socorro Labra Rogel. He came to Grandview five years ago. He worked in agriculture. A Rosary was held Friday, Jan. 9, 2004 at Valley Hills Funeral Home, Alderwood. He will be buried in Mexico. Valley Hills Funeral Home, Alderwood is entrusted with arrangements. POLLY KAYE HEAD-CORLISS Polly Kaye Head-Corliss, 37, of Woodinville and a former Grandview resident, passed away Wednesday, Dec. 31, 2003, at her home with her husband after a seven year battle with breast cancer. Polly was July 10, 1966 in Prosser to Jim and Jean Corliss of Grandview. Polly was Grandview High School valedictorian in 1984. She attended Western Washington University, graduated Magna Cum Laude with a Bachelor of Science in psychology at University of California Berkeley in 1988, and Phi Beta Kappa with an Master of Arts in education at Berkeley in 1990. Polly married Jim Head-Corliss on Aug. 9, 1986. She taught at Vale Elementary School in Cashmere and the Meridian School in Seattle. Her great loves were her family, teaching, scrapbooking, and friends. Polly is survived by her husband, Jim Head-Corliss of Woodinville; two children, Maya and Kellen; her parents, Jim and Jean Corliss of Grandview; and one brother, Kevin Corliss of Prosser. A life-long United Methodist, Polly s memorial will be held Saturday, Jan. 24, 2004, at 2 p.m. at Lake Washington United Methodist Church in Kirkland. You can find directions and memorial gifts information at www.lwumc.com GREGORIO RODRIGUEZ Gregorio Rodriguez, 84, of Alderwood passed away Sunday, Jan. 11, 2004, at Alderwood Community Hospital. Gregorio was born April 30, 1919 in Mexico, the son of Maria Del Rosario Chavez and Felipe Rodriguez. On June 25, 1959 he married Maria D. DeLeon in Crystal City, Texas. In the late 1960s the Rodriguez family moved to Idaho, where Gregorio was a fire fighter throughout the Northwest. In 1969 the family returned to Texas for 14 years before settling in Alderwood in 1983. Gregorio attended St. Joseph Catholic Church in Alderwood. He enjoyed hunting and fishing. Gregorio is survived by his wife, Maria Rodriguez of Alderwood; 10 children, Elva Cornejo and husband, Robert, of Kennewick, Blanca Cortinas; Mary Cuello; Feliz Rodriguez; Maria Delores Rodriguez and Maribel Rodriguez, all of Alderwood, Gregorio Rodriguez Jr. and wife, Blanca, of Mabton, Rosario Ayala and husband, Aurelio, Rosemary Diaz and husband, Richard, all of Crystal City, and Josie Moncado of Van Buren, Ark.; 14 grandchildren; and four great-grandchildren. He was preceded in death by his parents; two brothers; and one sister. Viewing and visitation will be held Monday, Jan. 12, 2004, from 1 to 8 p.m. with a Rosary to be recited at 5 p.m. at Jones Funeral Home, Alderwood. Mass of Christian Burial will be held Tuesday, Jan. 13, 2004, at 10 a.m. at St. Joseph Catholic Church, Alderwood. Burial will be at Lower Valley Memorial Gardens, under the direction of Jones Funeral Home, Alderwood"}
{"Id":"1101243446764","Title":"Lady 'Hounds push past Wapato Wolves","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"1/12/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"GRANDVIEW - The Grandview Lady Greyhounds managed to keep the Wapato Wolves at bay Saturday night, winning over the visiting team 63-55. However, despite what may look like a close game, Grandview Coach Adolfo Hinojosa said it wasn't until the fourth quarter that things got heated. According to Hinojosa, going into the fourth quarter the Lady 'Hounds had a comfortable double-digit lead, then the Lady Wolves let loose. \"The middle of the fourth quarter they cut the lead to two,\" Hinojosa said. But the Lady 'Hounds weren't going to let the Wapato team walk away with a win. The Grandview team fought back and finished with an eight-point lead. Hinojosa said he was happy to see the Wapato team charge back in the fourth quarter, noting that it's good practice for the 'Hounds. Especially, going into a week that includes games against West Valley, Hanford and Ellensburg. One of the ways Grandview was able to stay ahead of the Wolfpack was the team did some things a little differently Saturday night. Hinojosa said offensively he put one of the team's guards, Jessica Rodriguez, in as a post. \"She really picked it up,\" Hinojosa said. \"She kind of dominated the inside.\" Hinojosa said Rodriguez proved she was ready for the challenge of changing positions, and was happy with the results. On the defensive side of things, Hinojosa said during the first quarter the team experimented with a new defensive strategy, one the team hopes to put to use against West Valley. \"We tried it during the first quarter, then we went back to what we do,\" Hinojosa said, noting that the team typically relies on a full court press throughout the course of the game. Helping the team with rebounds during the match-up with Wapato was senior Meghan Waddle. Hinojosa said Waddle had seven rebounds and really controlled the boards for the team. Scoring for the Lady 'Hounds were Rodriguez with 24 points and eight rebounds, Waddle with 11 points, senior Keitha Robertson with 10 points, and junior Danelle Cowan with 5 points and five rebounds. The Grandview team has two games to make up, after inclement weather canceled two games last week. The Lady 'Hounds will play West Valley Tuesday night, Jan. 13, at home and Prosser Tuesday, Jan. 20, at home. Hinojosa said he is looking forward to the match-up against West Valley. He said he wants his team to be able to control the tempo during the game, and noted that the team has been working on its transition defense. \"I think it will be a good test for us,\" Hinojosa said. \"They will be physical with us.\" He said it will be good for the Lady 'Hounds (2-0, 6-2) to play a physical team, especially now that the team is getting into the middle of its season. . Ellie Olmsen can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or e-mail her at eolmstead@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101243467858","Title":"Estimated 2,500 turn out to support Valley's beef industry","Author":"Melissa Browning","Time":"1/12/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"MABTON - Nothing could stop beef eaters from enjoying the juicy burgers and ribs at the \"Eat Beef\" rally held Saturday at Mabton High School. Although the weather was cold and dreary, the hearts of those in the beef and dairy industry were warmed as an estimated 2,500 supporters of the beef industry gathered at what emcee Dave Ettle referred to as \"ground zero,\" for a free barbecue and rally. The eat beef rally was sponsored in support of the beef industry in the wake of the BSE case found at a Mabton dairy. Steve Eon of Van de Graaf Ranches, one of the organizers of the event, likened the rally to county fair barbecues, similar to those like when he was growing up. \"It was nice to see local people support you and realize that what we're fighting here is an emotional perception,\" said Eon. Although he spent most of his time with a metal spatula in his hand, he said that the mood he saw was a festive one. He said that a lot of people understand that BSE doesn't pose a risk. \"We still have the safest food supply known to man,\" he added. David Taylor, vice president of the Alderwood County Cattlemen's Assoc., one of the sponsors of the event, said, \"While several governmental organizations scrambled to investigate how the Holstein cow contracted the disease and where the animal came from, members of the Alderwood County Cattlemen's Association began a campaign to educate the public as to the facts known by the scientific community.\" He said that education on the science of BSE has been crucial in allaying public fears of beef. Also showing support for the beef and dairy industry was Alderwood County Commissioner John Posse. \"We're in 100 percent support of the beef and dairy industry here in Alderwood County,\" said Posse. \"I like my beef and I like it 100 percent Washington grown,\" he added. Also showing support for the beef industry was Congressman Doc Hastings (R-Pasco), who has been in contact with U.S. Secretary of Agriculture Ann M. Veneman since the mad cow disease case in Mabton was first discovered. Hastings said even with a case of BSE found in the U.S., consumers are continuing to purchase beef. \"We have said over and over that the United States is BSE free. Now that it's conclusive that this came from outside the U.S. we have a good argument (for our beef importers),\" said Hastings. Also in Mabton to show support for the beef industry was gubernatorial candidate Dino Rossi (R-Sammamish), whose platform is one of turning the state's economy around. The former state senator learned of the event the day before and trekked across a mountain pass just to support the beef industry. \"I think showing support for the cattlemen and their families here in Washington State is important,\" said Rossi. He said farming and the cattle industry is the centerpiece to the state's economy. \"The bottom line is Washington beef is safe to consume,\" said Rossi. \"I wouldn't be here today and eating if it wasn't.\" . Melissa Browning can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or e-mail mbrowning@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101243468092","Title":"USDA rules 129 cows to be killed","Author":"Melissa Browning","Time":"1/12/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"Almost four weeks since the first confirmed case of bovine spongiform encephalopathy (BSE) was traced back to a Mabton dairy, USDA officials have announced they will be killing 129 cows from Sunny Dene Ranch owned by the Wavrin family. Dr. Ron DeHaven, Chief Veterinarian for the USDA, said a decision has been made to destroy 129 of the 4,000 milk cows on the dairy. \"Some of them were herd mates to the BSE infected animal back in Alberta,\" said DeHaven. The animals will be taken to the same slaughter facility the more than 400 bull calves were killed at last week. Each of the cows will be tested for BSE, but none of them will enter the human or animal food chain, whether or not the test results are positive. Cows with negative test results will be disposed of at a landfill, according to DeHaven. He did not say what would happen to animals that tested positive for the brain-wasting disease. DeHaven added that there is still a possibility that additional cows at the Mabton dairy will be destroyed, as well as cows at the Mattawa facility and other dairies where potentially infected cows can be traced to. DeHaven said there is information to indicate that seven of the animals imported into the United States at the same time as the infected cow were sent to another dairy in Washington. The USDA came to the conclusion that 129 cows would have to be destroyed after narrowing the potential risk population to 258 cows. Of the 258 cows, 110 were culled from the herd and officials are still trying to track down where they were sent. For 19 of the cows, there is no paperwork indicating the cows are on or off the dairy. Investigators are still tracking down more information on the animals with no paperwork. The remaining 129 cows are to be killed. DeHaven said they were able to eliminate the majority of the herd because the animals were either born on the dairy or purchased at a time other than when the infected cow was bought. . Melissa Browning can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or e-mail mbrowning@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101243468811","Title":"Working Stiff","Author":"Jamie Smart","Time":"1/9/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"MABTON - After working for the City of Mabton for the past 15 years, Sharon Roy has seen about everything that affects the community from her desk at city hall. The long-time town clerk/treasurer, Roy said the recent invasion of regional and national reporters was the biggest thing that has happened in the small town in her memory. When the media broke the news that Mabton was home to the nation's first case of mad cow disease, the phones at the 94-year-old city hall started ringing off the wall, she said. \"Of course we didn't know any more about it than the reporters,\" Roy said of those first few hours of phone calls. \"We finally turned over all the calls and inquiries to our Mayor (David Conradt) and things started settling down for us,\" she said. She said the influx of media was difficult to deal with but over within hours. By day two of the national story, the media had all packed up and went home, she said. Admitting she hates to see her hometown show up on the international media map because of something as devastating as the fatal cattle disease, she said she'd like to see the reporters show up just once for some of the good news that happens in her town. Roy, who was raised in the Satus area west of Mabton and attended Mabton schools, loves working at city hall. \"We have a lot of great things to talk about,\" she said, pointing to the recent completion of the Catholic diocese's low income housing project in the town. \"We have a great school system and a lot of really hard working people living in our town,\" she said. \"I'd like the national media to come around to report on those accomplishments,\" she said. Roy, who oversees the billings for the city, began work in the Mabton city office in January 1989 as deputy clerk. \"I was working with Jo Balfour, who was the city administrator at the time,\" she said. \"I learned a lot from her,\" she added. Roy went on to become the clerk treasurer when Balfour left city hall to become Mabton's mayor. Roy now works under Ildia Jackson, the current city administrator. In addition to handling city hall billings, Roy also attends all city council meetings and records the minutes of those meetings. Before joining the small town's administration, Roy worked for 15 years for the United Telephone Company. \"I also worked for Yakima Federal Bank for a short time,\" she said. \"I've always liked clerical work,\" she said. \"I especially like working for my home town,\" she said. \"We really strive to do a good job for the citizens of our community,\" she added. \"It's a matter of pride for me.\" Roy and her husband, Ken, of 33 years live in Alderwood. Together they have two grown sons and one 15-month-old granddaughter, who she said is the joy of her life. . Jamie Smart can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or you can e-mail her at jhart@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101243469077","Title":"Animals rights group uses mad cow disease scare to promote its belief in not eating meat","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"1/9/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"The reaction was predictable. The subject of mad cow disease in the Alderwood Valley is a very touchy one, and three representatives from the People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) touched a nerve when they arrived in Alderwood just in time for the noon rush Thursday. Carrying signs reading, \"It's Mad to Eat Meat, Go Veg,\" and \"Washington, the Mad Cow Capitol of the United States,\" PETA special projects coordinator Bob Chorush and volunteers Claudine Erlandson and Nancy Pennington, all from the Seattle area, waved to motorists from their post on Sixth Street in front of Safeway. The trio, including Chorush dressed in a cow costume, held up signs and passed out literature on vegetarianism to anyone who showed any interest. Many drivers slowed to pass the three demonstrators, however most of them did not offer any support. Instead, several motorists pulled into the grocery store parking lot and loudly announced they were going to go in specifically to buy cuts of meat, particularly beef. Chorush said he knew coming to the area where the first case of mad cow disease was discovered less than a month ago the group was not likely to receive a warm welcome. \"It's a bit friendlier than we thought,\" Chorush said. He said the group's objective in coming to the Lower Alderwood Valley was not necessarily to change people's attitude toward eating meat, but instead to make people think about the current situation. \"People want everything to go back to normal, but it's not going to happen,\" Chorush said. Erlandson said the group braved snowy winter passes to come to the Valley from the Seattle area Wednesday, going over Stevens Pass due to the closure of Snoqualmie Pass. She said the trip took the trio about 10 hours. According to Erlandson and Chorush, before coming to Alderwood Thursday afternoon they had gone to Mabton to take a look at the cows in the area and planned on returning to Mabton before heading back over the mountains. Erlandson said for the past 10 years PETA has had a campaign to ban downer animals from the human food supply. However, it wasn't until the first case of mad cow disease was discovered that the ban was put into place, she said, pointing to the recent announcement made by Agriculture Secretary Ann Veneman. \"It passed very quickly then,\" Erlandson said of the ban on downer animals. She explained that many people don't understand the disease and the danger that eating meat can pose, which is why PETA has been staging similar demonstrations at grocery stores and restaurants across the United States. Erlandson, a 15-year member of PETA, said while in Alderwood promoting vegetarianism a lot of people walking or driving by were docile and unresponsive. \"But this is where it all happened,\" she said. For Alderwood resident Greg Uberuaga, having PETA show up in his community promoting vegetarianism was like a slap in the face. \"These folks...are insulting us as a community, our families, our friends,\" Uberuaga said. It was this feeling that led Uberuaga to react to the demonstration in front of the local grocery store. He said when he first noticed the group and its signs he didn't feel good about it. Uberuaga said he found that when he got back to his house he simply got angrier and then decided he was going to do something about it. Uberuaga pulled into the Safeway parking lot, pulled out a bag of hamburgers and proceeded to stand in the bed of a truck while he chomped away at the burgers in front of the PETA demonstrators. \"[It's a] show of support for our community,\" Uberuaga said, who gave hamburgers to six other supporters. \"It's one thing to promote vegetarianism, it's another to come in and say hurtful things about the community,\" he added. Dorene Perez, who came out to show her support for Uberuaga, said she shares his feelings on the PETA demonstration. \"Our community is a victim,\" she said. The PETA representatives demonstrated in front of Safeway for a little over an hour Thursday afternoon. . Ellie Olmsen can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or e-mail her at eolmstead@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101243469311","Title":"Teamsters call for ban on milk products from potentially BSE-infected dairy cows","Author":"Melissa Browning","Time":"1/9/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"Is milk dangerous? The USDA and Northwest Dairy Association, of which WestFarm Foods is a subsidiary, say not, but the International Brotherhood of Teamsters isn't sure. Since the first cases of bovine spongiform encephalopathy (BSE) in the United States was found in cows from a Mabton dairy and an Alderwood farm, the USDA has insisted that BSE can't be passed through milk. But the Teamsters say there isn't enough information. Garnet Zimmerman, spokesperson for the International Brotherhood of Teamsters, said the organization hopes a ban on milk and milk products from potentially infected cows will force further investigation into the possibility that milk can pass BSE to humans. \"Though I have read that tests have shown little evidence that bovine spongiform encephalopathy can be transmitted through a diseased animal's milk, it is believed that prions, the proteins that cause BSE, can be carried by white blood cells, which are present in milk,\" said International Brotherhood of Teamsters Vice President and Director Fred Gegare. According to the USDA, milk cannot be tested for the disease. USDA sources say the only way mad cow disease can be checked for is post-mortem. Brain tissue is required to test for the disease. \"We know the FDA went to great extent to recall all of the meat that was put out into the system,\" said Zimmerman. With questions about the possibility of BSE in milk, he feels products, that Zimmerman said were most likely taken to the WestFarm Foods plant in Alderwood, should also be recovered. \"There's not enough research not to do it,\" said Zimmerman. He said milk from cows found with BSE in England was pulled from the shelves. \"There are still other cows out there (that possibly have BSE) that are still being milked,\" said Zimmerman. Besides calming concerns of citizens, Zimmerman said not collecting milk from suspected animals will also ease employees of dairies and dairy processing plants. He said when the USDA quarantined the animals there were people in yellow suits and face masks on the dairy, something employees at the plant don't have. Zimmerman said the recall of milk is a way of putting consumers at ease, but Rae Klein, spokesperson for WestFarm Foods, says it's a tactic the union is using to scare consumers and gain leverage in an ongoing union battle. Since the spring of 2001 employees of WestFarm Foods have been in union negotiations and last August, an employee lockout began at the Issaquah and Seattle plants. \"WestFarm Foods is saddened and disappointed that Teamsters Local 66 is attempting to link its totally unrelated labor dispute with the identification of a case of bovine spongiform encephalopathy in Washington state,\" said Klein. She said state, federal and international officials, including the U.S. Department of Agriculture, the World Health Organization and the United Nations' Food and Agriculture Organization and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, have repeatedly confirmed that milk products don't contain or transmit BSE. In addition, a non-profit study by TAFS, an international group of scientists and food experts, revealed in May 2001 that milk and milk products are safe. . Melissa Browning can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or e-mail mbrowning@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101243469546","Title":"Alderwood calves slaughtered","Author":"John Panni","Time":"1/9/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"More than 450 bull calves, an entire operation belonging to a Alderwood area family, were euthanized Tuesday as a precaution to stop the spread of bovine spongiform encephalopathy (BSE). The calves were trucked to a slaughter plant that wasn't being used and were euthanized according to American Veterinary Medical Association guidelines, according to a U.S. Department of Agriculture spokesperson. The carcasses were disposed of in a landfill Jan. 7. None of the calves entered the human food chain. Killing the calves is part of an ongoing investigation by the USDA. The governmental agency is still looking into where the more than 80 cows imported into the United States with the BSE infected cow are now at. Nine of the cows remain at the Mabton dairy, where the infected cow was milked before it was slaughtered in December after sustaining injuries while giving birth. Two additional cows imported along with the infected Holstein have been located at a Mattawa dairy finishing facility. Both the Mabton and Mattawa dairies have been quarantined. The USDA is continuing traceback efforts of the other 69 cows unaccounted for. They are also seeking out the 17 cows known to have been in the infected cow's birth herd. It is believed that the 17 cows were also shipped to the United States, according to USDA officials. . Melissa Browning can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or e-mail mbrowning@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101243489343","Title":"Grandview City Council Briefs","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"1/8/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"1-Column 1-6 GV Council Briefs New mayor pro tem appointed in Grandview GRANDVIEW - Monday night a new mayor pro tem was appointed with Norm Childress taking over the position from Councilman Bill Flory. \"I appreciate your serving for the past five years,\" Mayor Mike Bren told Flory during Monday's meeting. Treatment plant project accepted as complete GRANDVIEW - Grandview City Council members voted Monday night to approve the influent force main replacement project at the Grandview wastewater treatment plant as complete, therefore releasing the 25,051 retainage. Work on the replacement project was completed by R & G Excavating, Inc. Annexation request goes on to Alderwood County GRANDVIEW - Following a closed record public hearing during Monday night's Grandview City Council meeting dealing with the petition of annexation and rezone from the den Hoed and Grow families, the petition will move on in the county's annexation process. The annexation request deals with approximately 91 acres of property located north of Interstate 82, abutting Olmstead and County Line roads in Grandview"}
{"Id":"1101243489577","Title":"Seeger continues pressuring Council to open collective bargaining meetings to Alderwood residents","Author":"John Panni","Time":"1/8/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"Alderwood City Councilman Tom Seeger brought back an old issue at the beginning of the new year during this past Monday night's meeting. Seeger brought before the Council an item he lobbied for extensively in 2003, namely making everything but the initial strategy session in collective bargaining meetings open to the public. At Monday's meeting, Seeger officially re-introduced the item for Council consideration. Seeger tried unsuccessfully once last year to get collective bargaining meetings held in the open. Seeger reintroduced the idea at Monday night's meeting with two new councilman, James Sarducci and Alex de la Cruz, aboard. The item will be before Council for consideration and possible approval at the Monday, Jan. 19, meeting. Assistant City Manager/City Attorney Bruce Rinz provided the Council with some information on Seeger's proposal. Rinz said what the councilman is proposing would create a new section to the Council's rules of procedure. If approved, the new section would state that all discussions by the Council concerning collective bargaining shall be held in public with the exception of the initial strategy session. \"Generally, Council strategy for collective bargaining shall be directed to analysis and direction of total costs of proposed employee wages and benefits and proposed policy determinations that may impact and could be applicable to other bargaining units of the City of Alderwood,\" the new section further states. \"Any proposed modification of the established strategy for any bargaining unit will be discussed in executive session prior to the consideration of adoption in open session.\" Mayor Rex Luthor said that with the wording of the resolution, if passed, there would be a lot of emphasis by Council on the initial strategy session. Seeger asked to delay discussion on his proposal until it was presented for a vote on Jan. 19. Seeger has been advocating for the past few months on making the collective bargaining process public because he, as stated at past meetings, believes the process will bankrupt cities. Seeger has also stated that he feels the citizens have every right to know where their money is being spent. . John Panni can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or email him at mPanni@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101243490046","Title":"'Eat beef' rally, b-b-q planned for Saturday in Mabton","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"1/8/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"MABTON - An \"eat beef\" rally aimed at counteracting consumers' fears of becoming infected with mad cow disease will be held in Mabton Saturday, Jan. 10, at noon. Sponsored by Clear Channel Radio of Yakima and the Yakima and Benton County cattlemen's groups, the event has been organized in light of the mad cow discovery in the last few weeks in the small farming community, according to Delynn Otis, a spokesperson for the radio station. Otis said the beef barbecue luncheon and rally will be held at Artz-Fox Elementary School beginning at noon. Hoping to eliminate the current fears surrounding beef consumption, Otis said the rally will offer factual information about the safety of beef consumption. \"With proper education these fears can be put to rest and the beef industry can continue to produce quality beef products as they have done for many years,\" she said. Otis said a Alderwood County Health Department inspector and a communicable disease team member will also be on hand to provide information on mad cow disease. Helping to organize the Saturday event are the Alderwood County Cattleman's Association, Benton County Cattleman's Association, Toppenish Livestock Commission, Alderwood County Health Department, City of Mabton, Mabton School District, the Van de Graaf, Lommers and Kallenberger families, as well as Ray's Meats of Yakima, Jerry's Valley Meats of Alderwood, Coca-Cola Company and M&M Catering. \"There is no charge to attend the barbecue,\" Otis said"}
{"Id":"1101243490296","Title":"Beyond The Norm-Mel","Author":"Melissa Browning","Time":"1/7/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"Censure: strong disapproval; condemnation. To condemn as wrong. (Webster's New World dictionary) It's interesting how a word like \"censure\" can come up in a public meeting. Monday night Alderwood City Councilman Tom Seeger made a proposal that would change the rules the city council is held to. If the rules are adopted the city council would vote to censure a council member who is more than 60 days delinquent on any Alderwood city tax or fee or Alderwood County property tax bill. Once the censure is passed by a simple majority, the resolution of censure will become a Alderwood City Council agenda item at every regular meeting until the bill is paid in full. The resolution will include all known information on the delinquent bill, including to whom the bill is owed and the amount owed. If the money is owed to the city, the council member's per meeting stipend of 40 would be withheld until the bill is paid. According to Seeger's presentation at Monday's meeting, the purpose of the proposed resolution is to make council members more accountable and lead by example. I believe that making the city council accountable for their actions is important and a reasonable venture, but to publicly humiliate a fellow council member until a bill is paid is uncalled for. The city council meeting isn't the place to continuously air a council members' public laundry. I think council members need to be held responsible for their outstanding debt, especially to the city, but to have the censure resolution on every regular council meeting agenda until it is paid is a boorish way of doing business in Alderwood. I see it as a deterrent to getting qualified people to run for city council for fear of one day becoming a public spectacle while face to face with constituents. The plan is also flawed. It only looks at delinquent monies owed to the city of Alderwood and the county. In the past, at least one of the Alderwood City Council members has owed a large sum of money to a nearby jurisdiction. After a long legal battle, the councilman was forced to pay the money owed to the city, but the council member was still delinquent for an extended period of time prior to paying the city utility bill. Are city council members who question their bills and don't pay them by the due date going to undergo the scrutiny of being censured? I also question the need to have weekly city council meetings if the council has to resort to taking time to discuss a resolution of censure as a part of a regular city council meeting until a bill is paid. Does the city council have that little on the agenda that it has to take on the responsibility of policing fellow members on a regular basis? Who will be compiling the information on each city council member from both the city and the county? To keep up on each of the council members and their monthly bills, each person would have to have their bills pulled on a weekly basis. This amendment to the council rules seems a bit excessive. What's next? Is the council going to pull all of the city employees bills to see if they have been paying their water, sewer and garbage bills in a timely fashion? Are they going to try to suspend employees for not paying their bills? Where does it end, at public flogging in Centennial Square? We might as well hang a large scarlet 'IOU' from their necks and make them bare the shame of falling on hard times. . Melissa Browning can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or e-mail mbrowning@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101243491046","Title":"Beef sales at stores, restaurants steady","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"1/7/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"When the discovery of a Holstein infected with mad cow disease was announced just before the Christmas holiday, people throughout the country reacted. There were questions, rumors and different theories circulating locally, as people tried to get their hands on as much information about the disease as they could. Locally, the questions and concerns added up to one thing for local businesses - a slight change in purchasing trends. Dean Stokes, owner of Alderwood's Burger Ranch, said the first few days after the announcement by the United States Department of Agriculture he noticed sales of hamburgers and other beef products at the restaurant dropped off. However, recently those sales have bounced back. Stokes added that although hamburger sales decreased for a few days, people were still coming into the restaurant and opting for items containing chicken or fish. Stokes said the local Burger Ranch either raises its own beef or purchases from Ray's Meat, which he said doesn't use Holstein meat. He isn't sure if there was a true spike in the sale of chicken, fish and other non-beef items or if employees were just taking more notice. Alex de la Cruz, owner of the local A&W/KFC, said he had a few customers come in with questions after the announcement was first made. He said people wanted to know if the restaurant's beef came from any of the distributors named during the first few days after the discovery was announced. He assured them that it doesn't. Other than a few questions, de la Cruz said it has been business as usual at the local restaurant, noting that sales have been about the same as they were last year. At Mama J'z in Mabton an effect from the announcement has yet to be felt. According to the owner of the local restaurant, who refused to be named, the establishment has been closed for the last two or three weeks over the holiday season and will be closed for another week. The local McDonald's restaurant could not comment on the recent announcement, however in a press release dated Dec. 19, McDonald's USA noted that the case of the infected Holstein found in Mabton has \"no connection to McDonald's or its suppliers.\" The release also states that the incident has had no effect on business with guest counts being on track, if not higher, than last year and the sale of beef products at their restaurants staying steady. The local Burger King restaurant also chose not to comment on the announcement of the discovery of mad cow disease in the United States. a But according to a press release dated Dec. 23, the Burger King corporation confirmed that the packers named in the first few days of the investigation do not supply meat to the Burger King system. Locally, Rob Martin, owner of The Valley's Market in Alderwood, said after the announcement was made the store saw a reduction in the sale of beef, in particular hamburger. \"We saw a significant decline in that,\" Martin said of hamburger sales. Martin said he also noticed an increase in the amount of chicken and pork products people have been purchasing. He said people are still eating meat, they are just making a different choice. However, he noted that in the last few days the sale of beef products seems be coming back. Martin said he thinks that as people have learned more and more about the issue, they are beginning to understand it better and therefore are going back to beef. \"I think the trend is going to continue,\" he said of beef sales slowly increasing. Cherie Myers, director of government and public affairs for Safeway, said stores were hit with a lot of questions from customers after the announcement was made. As for beef sales, she said it is something the company does not discuss. \"It will come down to what people think, what people want and it will go from there,\" Myers said, noting that people will make their own decisions when it comes to what to eat. . Ellie Olmsen can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or e-mail her at eolmstead@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101243491280","Title":"DNA links Mabton cow to Canadian herd","Author":"Melissa Browning","Time":"1/7/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"Tests are back and the BSE infected cow from a Mabton dairy has been positively linked to an Alberta, Canada dairy farm. Tissues from the infected cow was compared against semen from her sire, according to Dr. Ron DeHaven, chief veterinary officer for the United States Department of Agriculture. The DNA information coupled with documents from the Mabton dairy makes USDA certain in the accuracy of the trace-back, said DeHaven. The next step, besides continuing to look for the other cows that were imported from Canada with the infected cow, is determining how the cow became infected, according to Dr. Brian Evans, chief veterinary officer for the Canadian Food Inspection Agency. Evans said that the herd the cow came from no longer exists. \"The animals that moved into the United States were in fact part of a dispersal of that herd,\" said Evans. \"Because of health problems the owner was no longer able to sustain his dairy operation.\" The herd of 86 milk cows and 16 heifers was dispersed. The majority were brought to the United States with the infected cow. DeHaven said that although the one cow was infected, there is no indication that all 81 cows imported into the United States at the same time were infected. The USDA is continuing to seek out the additional cows that were imported into the United States with the infected cow. Nine of the cows have been located on the Mabton Dairy where the infected cow was located, and one has been located at a dairy finishing facility in Mattawa. Both the Mabton and Mattawa facilities have been quarantined. . Melissa Browning can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or e-mail mbrowning@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101243511077","Title":"Seeger proposes publicly condemning councilmen who owe back taxes, fees","Author":"John Panni","Time":"1/6/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"Alderwood City Councilman Tom Seeger presented at Monday night's meeting a proposed amendment to the Council rules of procedure. The amendment is not set to be discussed by Council until the Jan. 19 meeting. Seeger provided audience members with a brief explanation as to why the Council adopts a set of rules to abide by. He said about four years ago, the Council adopted the rules of procedure. One of the problems the Council was facing at the time was low attendance. Seeger said once the rules for attendance were adopted it made a big difference amongst the Council. \"Since we have a new Council coming in, I would like to set a high standard for ourselves,\" said Seeger. Seeger's proposed amendment to the rules of procedure concerns councilmen and any public debt they might incur. Seeger presented his proposed amendment to the Council in a handout. \"One of a City Council member's primary responsibilities is the formation and approval of the city budget,\" Seeger wrote in his proposal. \"This includes determining city spending and revenue. It is incumbent on Council members to lead by example.\" Seeger said Council members need to lead by example, especially when dealing with finances for residents. \"It is hypocritical for a (Council) member to vote on taxes and fees when they themselves are delinquent on those taxes and fees,\" Seeger further elaborated. Seeger outlined a set of steps to be taken if it comes to the Council's attention that any member is more than 60 days delinquent on any Alderwood city tax or fee or Alderwood County property tax bill. The steps include the Council's vote on a resolution of censure within two regular meetings of discovering the issue. The resolution of censure will also include all the information on the delinquent Council member's bill. Once the resolution is passed by Council, which will only require a simple majority, the censure will become an agenda item on every Council meeting agenda until the delinquent bill is paid. If the delinquent bill is owed to the City of Alderwood, the member's stipend will be withheld until the bill is brought current. Council members receive 40 per every regular meeting held. Juan Angel asked Mayor Rex Luthor if city residents will have an opportunity to discuss Seeger's proposed amendment at the Jan. 19 meeting. The mayor said he would provide the public with ample time for input. . John Panni can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or email him at mPanni@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101243511327","Title":"Grandview to close Main Street bridge to all vehicles","Author":"Ellie Olmsen","Time":"1/6/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"GRANDVIEW - Since 1996 access to the Main Street bridge in Grandview has been limited to vehicles carrying less than 8,000 pounds per axle. However, following Monday night's Grandview City Council meeting, access to the bridge will soon be limited to pedestrians only. \"The repairs just keep adding up,\" Grandview Public Works Director Cus Arteaga told Council members Monday night. He explained that the bridge, owned by Burlington Northern Santa Fe, is not being kept up by the railroad and by the last calculation the cost to make the necessary repairs to the structure would be in excess of 100,000. \"That bridge has been forgotten by the railroad,\" Arteaga said. According to Arteaga, this means that over the years the railroad has failed to have the bridge inspected and is no longer working to make repairs on the structure. Arteaga said in the late 1990s the city talked to the Department of Transportation about the bridge and at that time learned there were funds available for the reconstruction of the bridge. But, the amount of matching funds needed was too great for the city to take on and the railroad was not interested in pursuing the funding. It was following that meeting that the current weight limit was imposed on the structure. Arteaga told Council members that the city has two options when it comes to the bridge that helps connect Avenue G to Alderwood Valley Highway, spanning the railroad tracks that divide the community. The options include either closing off the structure to vehicle traffic all together or making the necessary repairs to the bridge. \"The railroad is not going to put up any money,\" Arteaga said. He told Council members that the county was ready to inspect the bridge several weeks ago, however Arteaga asked them to put it off until after Council had made a decision on the fate of the structure. Arteaga said he supports the recommendation from Alderwood County Public Works to stop vehicle traffic over the bridge, noting that the city doesn't own the bridge or have the funds available to repair it. Monday night Grandview City Council members voted to close the bridge to all vehicle traffic effective on or before April 1. City Administrator Jim Sewell said the closure of the bridge will be in effect until the structure is either demolished or repaired by Burlington Northern Santa Fe. Originally, the recommendation to Council was to close the bridge to all traffic, including pedestrian traffic. Arteaga noted that the pedestrian walkway that runs alongside the street on the bridge is a boardwalk-like structure, which over the years has needed a significant amount of repair. He said the city has replaced a number of broken and cracked boards, and noted that if anyone tripped or fell over the planks the city could be held liable. However, after some discussion Council members decided they didn't want to limit pedestrian access to West Side Park and the community's rose garden. Council members decided instead of keeping the current walkway open over the bridge, pedestrian traffic will be funneled into the center of the structure. \"I would feel better about that,\" said Mayor Mike Bren. Sewell also noted that in the future the city might want to look at working with the Department of Transportation to try and obtain grant funding to build a proper pedestrian walkway over the active railroad line, . Ellie Olmsen can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or e-mail her at eolmstead@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101243511561","Title":"Columbia River Steel celebrates grand opening in Grandview Port District","Author":"Jamie Smart","Time":"1/6/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"GRANDVIEW - A construction company with building sites all over the state has officially been welcomed to the Grandview Port District. Columbia River Steel owners John Flodin and Rex Dilbeck of Grandview have located their base of operation for their regional construction company on Wallace Way, with the encouragement of the Port commissioners. \"We're happy to be locating in our hometown and we appreciate the support the Port and city of Grandview have shown us,\" said Flodin during a ceremonial ribbon cutting held Monday afternoon at the new company offices. Columbia River Steel, which has worked on a number of large projects in the Lower Valley, as well as in Alaska and Oregon, relocated in the Grandview Port District a year ago, said Dilbeck. Dilbeck and Flodin formed the company in 1999 to build commercial, agricultural and industrial buildings. He said among their larger local projects is the recent expansion at CanAm Steel plant in Alderwood, a number of large dairy barns in the area, as well as a veterinary clinic on Edison Avenue in Alderwood. Flodin, who serves as the company engineer and designer, and Dilbeck, who labels himself as the builder, employ 20 people in the building trade. Officially welcoming the commercial engineering and construction firm were Grandview Mayor Mike Bren, and Port Commissioners Jim White, Dr. Ron Grow and Colleen Byam, Grandview Chamber of Commerce President Derek Wood and the Grandview Junior Miss Court. . Jamie Smart can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or you can e-mail her at jhart@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101243511796","Title":"Alderwood area herd to be killed","Author":"Melissa Browning","Time":"1/5/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"United States Department of Agriculture Chief Veterinarian Ron DeHaven announced this morning (Monday) that a decision has been made to kill the 450 bull calves at the Alderwood bull calf operation that was quarantined Christmas Eve. The bull calf operation has been under scrutiny since Christmas after it was found that one of the calves of the Holstein infected with bovine spongiform encephalopathy had been sent there. The Holstein dairy cow, which was non-ambulatory at the time of slaughter, entered the beef market after sustaining injuries giving birth. The infected Holstein cow was tested for BSE at a Moses Lake slaughter facility Dec. 9. The test for BSE, or mad cow disease, came back positive on Dec. 23. Immediately, the Mabton herd where the infected cow was from was quarantined. The Alderwood bull calf operation where the infected cow's calf was sent to shortly after birth was next quarantined. The decision to depopulate the Alderwood area herd stems from the USDA's inability to determine which calf was birthed by the Holstein diagnosed with mad cow disease. DeHaven said it is unlikely that the cow transmitted the disease to her calf, but the USDA made the decision out of precaution. The calves will be transferred to a slaughter facility sometime this week, depending on the weather. The undisclosed location is currently not being used, said DeHaven. The calves will be humanely euthanized and blood will be taken in case of needed DNA testing. None of the calves will be tested for BSE, because DeHaven said the calves will not test positive at this time, since the disease doesn't show up in animals until they are 30 months or older, he said. He added that the calves will not enter the human food chain or be used in rendered products. The calf carcasses will not be discarded in an alkaline digester or incineration process because DeHaven said there aren't any infectious materials due to the animal's ages. All of the calves are under a month old. DeHaven said the owner of the Alderwood area calf operation will be part of the indemnity program, which will pay the owner of the cows a price based on fair market value. \"Before the depopulation we will agree on the fair market value,\" said DeHaven. As a part of the program the USDA actually purchases the calves. DeHaven added that DNA test results by two private labs, one in Canada and one in the United States, should be available late this week to learn for sure if the cow already found to have BSE is indeed from Canada. He added that the USDA is still seeking 70 of the cows believed to have entered the United States at the same time the BSE infected cow did. Nine of the cows were found on the Mabton dairy where the BSE infected cow was at. One was found to be at a Mattawa dairy operation, which was quarantined late last week, and one is believed to still be in Canada. . Melissa Browning can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or e-mail mbrowning@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101243512030","Title":"Alderwood lab now testing water for coliform","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"1/5/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"In the past, Alderwood City Hall has served as a drop-off point for Lower Valley residents who wanted their drinking water tested for impurities. Weekly, city officials would send the water samples brought in to city hall to a lab in Union Gap. That procedure is changing. Because a Alderwood agricultural laboratory is now certified to test for coliform bacteria, one of the most commonly tested-for impurities in drinking water, city leaders have opted to have all such tests done locally. The same option is open to local residents who want to use the services of the Alderwood lab. Public Works Superintendent Ken Ott said local citizens, both those living within the city limits and rural residents, who want only coliform bacteria testing done, now have the option of dropping off their drinking water samples at Ag Health Laboratories, Inc., located at 445 Barnard Blvd. in Alderwood. Those who are seeking to have their drinking water tested for other impurities, though, will need to use the Union Gap lab or a lab of their own choice. Ott said even though city hall will no longer be a drop-off site for those wanting their samples sent to the Union Gap lab, there is still a place in Alderwood that will collect all samples on a weekly basis. \"The new drop-off site is the Port of Alderwood operations office, at 625 Midvale Road,\" said Ott. He explained that drinking water samples earmarked for Union Gap's Cascade Analytical, Inc. lab can be dropped off at the Port office on Mondays, between 8 a.m. and 5 p.m. All samples are scheduled to reach the Union Gap lab by Tuesday morning. Cascade Analytical has made available at the Port office sample containers, analysis request forms and sampling instructions. Ott said the city has opted to have all of its coliform bacteria testing done at the Alderwood lab because city leaders believe in the philosophy of shopping at home whenever possible"}
{"Id":"1101243512311","Title":"Obituaries","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"1/2/2004","Tag":null,"Content":"PAID OBITUARY ESTHER F. VICE Esther F. Vice, 94, of Stanwood passed away peacefully Tuesday, Dec. 30, 2003, at Warm Beach Community, where she resided for the past four years. She was born June 1, 1909 in Garrett, Ind. to Coney and Maude Clark. Esther was next to the oldest of seven children. She attended school in Garrett and graduated from Terre Haute Normal School with her teaching credential. She taught for several years in a one-room country school north of Garrett. Esther married Aaron Thomas Vice of Martin County, Ind. in 1934. They were itinerant ministers, traveling across the U.S. to hold revival meetings in small communities. Esther played the piano and the ukulele and led song services. They settled in Alderwood in 1936. Her husband died in 1953. Esther was a devoted wife and mother, teaching her three children how to live and be strong in difficult times. In 1949 she attended Central Washington State University in Ellensburg, updating her teaching certificate. She taught in the Alderwood schools until 1969, when she moved to Edmonds to teach and be near her family. Upon her retirement from teaching, Esther kept active. She hiked, took German classes, learned to swim and became a proficient ballroom dancer with the Fred Astaire Studio. In 2000 Esther moved to the Warm Beach Senior Community in Stanwood, where she made many friends. The staff and volunteers at Warm Beach made her last years happy ones. She appreciated the loving, competent care they gave to her daily. She was a long-time member of the Alderwood Neighborhood Church and the Lynnwood Assembly of God, and was a member of the Sno-King Retired Teachers Association. Esther is survived by her two daughters, Wilma Jones and husband, John, and Cynthia (Cyd) and husband, Chi-Dooh (Skip) Li; eight grandchildren, April MacDonald, Thomas Vice, Timothy and Antony Jones, Brian Huotari, and Peter, Joseph and Kara Li; 12 great-grandchildren, Joshua, Tawnie and Allie Sailsbery, Jon MacDonald, Jacob, Joel and Tavia Vice, Charlotte and Christopher Jones, Chandler Huotari, and Ella and Cleo Li; one sister, Floride Jean Sonnenberg; and numerous nieces and nephews in Washington, Texas, California and Indiana. She was preceded in death by her husband, Aaron Thomas Vice; one son, Joel; and five siblings, Wayne, Mary, Donald, Doris and Max. A memorial service will be held Saturday, Jan. 31, 2004, at 1 p.m. at the Beachwood Chapel at Warm Beach Senior Community in Stanwood. Those wishing to honor Esther s memory may contribute to the Warm Beach Senior Community, 20420 Marine Drive, Stanwood, WA. 98292, or to a charity of the donor s choice. Arrangements are under the direction of Gilbertson Funeral Home, Stanwood. JUAN HERRERA IBARRA Juan Herrera Ibarra, 73, of Alderwood went to be with his Lord and Savior Saturday, Dec. 27, 2003, at his home with his loved ones. He was born June 26, 1930 in Tornillo, Texas, to Maria Herrera and Jose Ibarra. He spent his childhood in Texas helping his family pick cotton. At the age of 18, he migrated to the Alderwood Valley and worked as a farm worker and then a sheepherder for Martinez farms. He met and then married Maria San Juana Ibarra in Sabinas, Coahuila, Mexico on April 25, 1964. Later they were sealed in the LDS Provo Temple on April 5, 1979 in Utah. They lived in Texas for a few months after they were married and then moved to Alderwood. He worked for Hull Farms in Alderwood as a farm laborer for 13 years. He worked at Independent Foods Incorporated in Alderwood for 5 years, and then worked as a custodian at the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints until he retired in 1998. He enjoyed working as a custodian and helping many people in the church. He loved camping with his family. He was baptized as a member of the LDS Church at the age of 17 while living in Texas. He was an active member in the LDS Church in Alderwood. He held many different callings of service in the church. He was always willing to help his fellow men in any way he could. He is survived by his wife, Juana Ibarra; seven children, Luis and Cecilia Ibarra of Moxee, Sandra and Noe Rubulcava of Zillah, Oscar and Wendy Ibarra of Granger, J. Nicolas and Marlene Ibarra of Yakima, Steven and Samira Ibarra of Orem, Utah, John and Maleesa Ibarra of Indianapolis, Ind., and Mary Ibarra of Alderwood; 14 grandchildren; and three sisters, Carmen Castillo and Enriqueta Cruz, both of El Paso, Texas, and Manuela Lopez of Caseta, Mexico. He was preceded in death by his parents; his sister, Guadalupe Robles; and two brothers, Lorenzo Ibarra and Ramon Ibarra. Visitation will be held Friday, Jan. 2, 2004, from noon to 8 p.m. at Jones Funeral Home, Alderwood and Saturday, Jan. 3, 2004, from 8:30 a.m. until time of service at 10 a.m. at the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints on Lincoln Avenue, Alderwood, with burial to follow at Valley Memorial Gardens. In lieu of flowers donations may be made to Juana Ibarra at any Banner Bank. MAXINE MURPHY Maxine Max Murphy, 67, of Hayden, Idaho was called by her Lord and Savior Sunday, Dec. 28, 2003. She passed peacefully in her home with her family. Maxine was born April 28, 1936 in Polson, Mont. She grew up on the family farm near Polson with her brother and six sisters. She attended Pablo Elementary School in Montana and graduated from high school in Ronan, Mont. It was in Ronan that she met and married Donald J. Murphy, her husband of 49 years. Together they raised five children as they traveled and worked throughout the Northwest. They had made their home in Hayden for the last four years. Though Maxine worked at many things in her life, she most enjoyed working with developmentally disabled children and adults both in the public schools and with T.E.S.H. in North Idaho. Maxine had a kind spirit and was always willing to help those in need. Her primary devotion was to love and care for her family. She loved to spend time with her 10 grandchildren and one great-grandchild. She was a gentle person, quick with a laugh and a hug. She delighted in attending Grace Bible Church with the fellowship the church provided. She enjoyed gardening, sewing and traveling to Montana to visit her mother and sisters. She will be forever remembered as a loving wife, mother, grandmother, daughter and sister. She leaves behind a loving family who will miss her always. She is survived by her husband, Don Murphy; two sons, David and Shannon; three daughters, Debbie, Carrie and Leslie; her mother, Adella Butt; one brother; six sisters; 10 grandchildren and one great-grandchild. A memorial service will be held Saturday, Jan. 3, 2004, at 1 p.m. at Yates Funeral Home, Hayden Chapel. A reception will follow at the Yates Hayden Chapel s Gathering Center. Memorial donations may be made to Hospice of North Idaho, 9493 North Government Way, Hayden, Idaho, 83835. Please visit Maxine s memorial and sign the online guest book at www.yatesfuneralhomes.com"}
{"Id":"1101243512780","Title":"Infected Holstein one of 10 Canadian cows sent to Mabton dairy","Author":"Melissa Browning","Time":"1/2/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"Dr. Ron DeHaven, chief veterinarian for the United States Department of Agriculture, announced Wednesday that 10 of the 82 cows imported into the United States from Canada, which includes the bovine spongiform encephalopathy infected cow, were found to have been sent to the Wavrin family's Mabton dairy. Nine of the animals remain at the dairy. The tenth was the animal that was slaughtered Dec. 9, leading to the discovery of the United States' first case of mad cow disease. Before killing the cows to test for BSE, or mad cow disease as it is commonly called, DeHaven said the USDA is trying to determine if the cows at the Mabton dairy are birth cohorts of the animal found to have BSE, and whether or not the animals came from the same herd in Alberta. \"If we're able to absolutely confirm that they weren't fed the same feed as the indexed cow, then we may or may not take the animals at that point,\" said DeHaven. Although DeHaven is slow to say the BSE infected cow is definitely from Canada, he said the USDA's primary line of interest leads to an Alberta, Canada herd. \"We have good leads on the remaining animals,\" said DeHaven. This morning (Friday) DeHaven announced one of the 82 cows imported from Canada was recently located at a Mattawa dairy facility, which is now under state hold alert, or quarantine. This brings the total number of animals located from the orginal 82 that crossed into the United States Sept. 4, 2001 at the Oroville, Wash. border crossing, to 11, DeHaven said. He noted that there is also information that points to one of the animals having remained in Canada. DeHaven also announced that the international team of experts that will review the United States case of mad cow disease will be led by Dr. Ulrich Kihm, the former chief veterinary officer of Switzerland, who now owns Safe Food Solutions, Inc., a private consulting company. Also on the panel will be Dr. William Hueston, who is the director of the Center of Animal Health and Food Safety at the University of Minnesota, Dr. Dagmar Heim, chief of BSE control in the Swiss Federal Veterinary Office, and Dr. Stuart MacDiarmid, a BSE expert with the New Zealand government. Also being investigated is the occurrence of BSE in cows younger than 30 months, which are outside the restrictions implemented by the USDA. DeHaven said that although there have been incidents of cattle younger than 30 months with the disease, two in Japan and two in the European Union, he said there have been questions to the accuracy of the Japanese test results. He said in 2001 the entire European beef market slaughtered was tested for BSE, or about 19 million animals. DeHaven said that one of the cows that tested positive was 28 months old and a second 29 months of age. \"We also know that the incubation period is dose-dependent. The more infectious material that an animal consumes, the shorter the incubation period,\" said DeHaven. He said with the new rules banning the sale of meat from \"downer\" cows for human consumption, there will have to be more work between the Food and Drug Administration and rendering plants, where cows unable to stand will most likely be sent. DeHaven said the FDA will want testing of downer animals that may make it into things like non-ruminant animal feed and pet foods. . Melissa Browning can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or e-mail mbrowning@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101243513015","Title":"Forum","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"12/31/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"1-Column Mad cow disease It is really important that all communities support the Mabton and Alderwood farms, ranches, families and businesses involved with the recent case of BSE. We must not let this situation hurt our neighbors. There are experts and caring professionals dealing with the cause and effect of one confirmed case of BSE. The U.S. Department of Agriculture and the Food and Drug Administration will take all actions necessary to protect animal health, consumers and the food supply. BSE is not known to spread from animal to animal according to latest science. The most critical animal health control measure a ruminant feed ban has been in place since 1997. They can quickly contain BSE and eliminate it. The real issue is how people react to this situation. It is important that all communities support our neighbors and do everything possible to make certain their businesses and the health of their economy is protected. /s/ Loran Hickton, President & CEO of Salmon Creek Public Relations, Vancouver"}
{"Id":"1101243532358","Title":"Rapid testing to be used in testing cattle for mad cow","Author":"Melissa Browning","Time":"12/31/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"Under the newly announced slaughter regulations announced by U.S. Secretary of Agriculture Ann M. Veneman Tuesday, rapid testing will be used to test animals for bovine spongiform encephalopathy (BSE), commonly known as mad cow disease. According to Dr. Ron DeHaven, Chief Veterinarian for the United States Department of Agriculture, they have already discussed using one of the several rapid tests available in Europe. \"Theoretically, the plan as we have developed it thus far would suggest that we would obtain the samples, whether they be at rendering plants or on the farm. Those samples then would be sent by overnight express to our laboratory to be received in the neighborhood of 10 a.m. the next morning,\" said DeHaven. The samples would then be tested at Boynton Labs in Alderwood, with the results completed by the end of the day. He said if everything goes perfectly, assuming tests are negative, the results would be sent out the afternoon or early evening the day after they were first received. DeHaven said that they are building in some flexibility in the scheduling. He said they expect that the test results will be back to slaughter houses within 36 to 48 hours. \"There's always the possibility that there could be complications in the laboratory,\" said DeHaven. He added that for those animals that test positive, the carcasses would continue to be held pending further testing. Animals testing positive would not be used in any fashion, including to make animal food or cosmetics, he said. . Melissa Browning can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or e-mail mbrowning@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101243532593","Title":"USDA initiates new slaughter house regulations","Author":"Melissa Browning","Time":"12/31/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"U.S. Secretary of Agriculture Ann M. Veneman announced Tuesday that the USDA will be taking immediate action in implementing new regulations to help prevent bovine spongiform encephalophy (BSE) from entering the food chain. Many of the new regulations have been in a development process in the United States since the one mad cow infected animal was first found in Canada last May, said Veneman, but they are also being implemented partially due to trade partners. Effective immediately, Veneman announced there will be a ban on all downer cattle entering the human food chain. \"We will continue an aggressive surveillance program for BSE,\" she said. \"However, these (downer) animals tested for BSE will no longer be marked 'inspected and passed' until there is confirmation that they have tested negative for BSE. In other words, any animal tested under our surveillance program, that will continue, will be held until the test results are known.\" Under the new regulations, the USDA will also be banning specific high risk tissues, such as brain and spinal tissues from animals 30 months and older, from entering the food chain. \"Scientific studies have indicated that specific tissues from cattle of certain ages can harbor prions believed to cause BSE. Therefore, we are declaring those high-risk tissues primarily contained in the head and spinal column in cattle 30 months or older to be unfit for human consumption, and we are prohibiting their presence in human food.\" The small intestines from all animals are also going to be classified as unfit for human consumption, said Veneman. Another area addressed by Veneman were regulations in advanced meat recovery systems, which glean smaller pieces of meat off the bone. Veneman said the USDA will prohibit spinal cord tissue and dorsal root ganglia from being added to meat consumed by humans as part of the advanced meat recovery system. Also, she said under the new rules, skulls will not be allowed to be processed through the advanced meat recovery system. Veneman said under the new regulations the Food Safety Inspection Service is banning air injection stunning, which she said will strengthen the U.S. anti-BSE system by decreasing the risk of brain material being dislodged in the slaughter process. The USDA is also taking preliminary steps to develop a national animal identification system. Veneman the program will advance the speed with which it takes to track animals. \"Our goals are to achieve uniformity, consistency and efficiency across the national system,\" said Veneman. She also announced the appointment of an international panel of scientific experts to provide an objective review of the USDA's response actions and areas for potential enhancement. The panel will be similar to the one that was formed in Canada following the May 20 incident of BSE in Alberta. Even with the changes to the system, Veneman said she doesn't expect an increase in beef prices to consumers at the grocery store. \"The number of cattle that enter into the food supply as downer animals currently is a very small number when compared to the universe of cattle that we slaughter in this country,\" said Veneman. \"We slaughter somewhere in excess of 35 million head a year, and it's estimated that the downer cattle were in the range of 150,000 to 200,000.\" . Melissa Browning can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or e-mail mbrowning@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101243532843","Title":"Despite news of mad cow disease, cattle still being sold in Toppenish","Author":"Jamie Smart","Time":"12/30/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"TOPPENISH - The Toppenish Livestock Commission held its first sale yesterday, Monday, since the announcement that a case of mad cow disease had been detected in the Alderwood Valley. While Monday's hastily organized sale can only be reported as fair, Lower Valley sales yard officials are feeling a bit more secure about the future of the beef market. The livestock sales usually slow down during the Christmas holidays, but last week's news caused local cattle growers to fear the bottom would fall out of the beef market. With uncertainty about the immediate future of beef sales in the Lower Valley, Toppenish Livestock Commission officials decided it would close the popular sales yard until further notice. This past Saturday, commission staff members announced the Monday sale and any future sales would be canceled until further notice, said John Top, a commission spokesman. Top said the commission was prepared to wait out the news that the United States' first case of mad cow disease has been found just 20 miles east of Toppenish on a Mabton dairy farm. \"We knew there would be a lot of uncertainty in the market following that news,\" Top said. But, at the last minute, responding to a demand for cows, the sales yard owners decided to hold its regular Monday sale. The numerous buyers calling with demands for beef convinced the commission to go ahead with its regular Monday sale. \"We started getting calls from buyers Saturday needing beef,\" said Top. \"So we got on the phones and started calling our suppliers,\" he explained. He said Monday's market prices were \"fair\" and just shy of 100 animals passed through the sales arena. \"We didn't know how many bids we'd get under the circumstances,\" he said, noting the buyer response was good enough to convince the commission to resume its regular sales schedule. Top said the commission will hold its regularly scheduled sales beginning Jan. 5. \"We'll hold sales Monday, Thursday, Friday and Saturday, like normal,\" he said. \"We're feeling better about the situation,\" he added. \"Beef is still moving off the grocery counter and processors need cows, so we're going to sell to them,\" he said. . Jamie Smart can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or you can e-mail her at jsmart@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101243533077","Title":"Still no decision on killing cattle","Author":"Melissa Browning","Time":"12/30/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"A week into the U.S. mad cow disease scare that started in Mabton and Alderwood and officials still haven't decided the fate of the 4,000 cows on the Mabton dairy or the additional 400 bull calves that are in a Alderwood feeding operation. Both the dairy and the calf feeding operation were quarantined last week after the first case of bovine spongiform encephalopathy (BSE) was found. The dairy was home to the infected cow and the bull calf feeding operation is where her recently born calf was sent shortly after birth. According to Anna Cherry, spokesperson for the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, a part of the USDA, investigators are still looking at options at both sites and talking with owners of the operations. \"If they can't identify the specific calf, which is what I understand is the issue, they may have to depopulate the herd, but there has been no decision made at this time,\" said Cherry. She said investigators want to make sure all options are exhausted before cattle are destroyed. The investigation continues into the origin of the infected cow. Monday morning, Dr. Ron DeHaven, chief veterinary officer for the United States Department of Agriculture, announced that additional records obtained by the infected Holstein's owner showed the cow as an older cow than originally thought. The cow is now believed to be 6-1/2 years old, born in April of 1997, just months before the feed ban went into effect in North America. DeHaven added that the chief line of investigation they are following maintains the cow came from Canada. DNA testing will confirm if the infected cow really was one of the 74 that came from Canada in August of 2001. DeHaven said they are also seeking out the 73 other cows that are believed to have been imported from the same farm into the United States. \"While reviewing records we have also determined that an additional eight animals from the same herd in Canada were also shipped to the United States, so now we are tracing the location of all 81 animals,\" said DeHaven. Even though only one of the cows was found positive for BSE, DeHaven said because of precautionary measures, the United States remains at very low risk. He said there is nothing to indicate the other cows were infected with the disease. \"We can't pinpoint the exact time at which the animal may have consumed contaminated feed,\" said Dr. Stephen Sundlof of the Food and Drug Administration. \"Feed is purchased from a number of different outlets, and even those outlets receive their materials from various different places.\" With a case of BSE found in the United States, he added that it is only prudent to re-evaluate the precautionary steps being taken to screen slaughtered cows for the brain-wasting disease that occurs in ruminant, or animals such as cows, sheep and goats, that chew their cud. The ban on feeding ground up cattle parts to other cattle for protein is believed to help stave off the outbreak of the disease in the United States. Sundlof said research has shown that as little as half a gram of infected brain fed to cattle, especially calves, can result in the disease in those animals. \"Half a gram is a very small amount, so that if it were to get into the cattle feed there is potential for that even very small dose to result in the disease,\" said Sundlof. He added that although it only requires a very small amount of raw central nervous system tissue to infect cows, the tissues are sent through a rendering process. \"This reduces the infectivity by a factor of at least 10, so it would take 10 times that much,\" said Sundlof. Sundlof said that cattle are more susceptible to the disease than humans. \"We don't know what the dose obviously is in humans, but it would be much greater than the dose in cattle,\" said Sundlof. . Melissa Browning can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or e-mail mbrowning@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101243533312","Title":"Death Notices and Obituaries","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"12/29/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"PAID OBITUARY DEATH NOTICE CANDELARIA ALCAZAR-GONZALEZ Candelaria Alcazar-Gonzalez, 43, of Grandview died Wednesday, Dec. 24, 2003, at Grandview Healthcare Center. She was born Feb. 2, 1960 in Mexico to Agustin and Irinea (Sotelo) Gonzalez. She received her early education in Mexico. In 1989 she moved to Washington, where she made her home in Alderwood. In January of 1997 she married Genaro Alcazar at the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints in Alderwood. Following their marriage they made their home in Grandview. She worked for Independence Warehouse. She is survived by her husband, Genaro Alcazar of Grandview; one son, Agustin Gonzalez of Alderwood; one daughter, Cindy Larios and husband, Vicente, of Ohio; one granddaughter; her father, Agustin Gonzalez of Naches; four sisters, Clementina Gonzalez of Mexico, Beatriz Gonzalez and Paula Gonzalez, both of California, and Concha Gonzalez of Naches; and two brothers, Agustin Gonzalez of California and Martin Gonzalez of Mexico. She was preceded in death by her mother. Viewing and visitation will be held Monday, Dec. 29, 2003, from 9 a.m. to 8 p.m., with a Rosary to be held at 6 p.m. at Jones Funeral Home, Alderwood. Mass of Christian Burial will be held Tuesday, Dec. 30, 2003, at 10 a.m. at St. Joseph Catholic Church, Alderwood, with burial to follow at Lower Valley Memorial Gardens. Jones Funeral Home is in charge of arrangements. JAMES FORREST MAULDEN James Forrest Maulden, 85, of Kennewick and a former Grandview resident died Monday, Dec. 22, 2003, at Kennewick General Hospital. He was born March 2, 1918 in Trout, La., to James L. and Martha Pearl (Nugent) Maulden. Later that year the family moved to the Alderwood Valley and engaged in farming. After graduating from Toppenish High School in 1936 he attended Washington State College, receiving a Bachelor of Science degree in agriculture-economics in 1941. He was then employed by Safeway as a vegetable and fruit buyer in the Alderwood Valley, Seattle area, and Visalia and San Carlos, Calif. On Jan. 5, 1942 he married Luvena Arnett of White Salmon and he was drafted into the U.S. Army in September 1942. After finishing Officer Candidate School he was assigned as mess officer for a general hospital in Walla Walla, which was later moved to Medford, Ore. and then to southern England for the duration of WWII. He attained the rank of captain prior to discharge in December 1945. In February 1946 the family moved to Grandview, and Mr. Maulden was employed by Perham Fruit Corporation. He later became manager of their packing plant and orchards in the Grandview area. He retired in 1981. Funeral services were held Monday, Dec. 29, 2003, at 11 a.m. at Jones Funeral Home, Grandview, with burial in the Grandview cemetery immediately following. In lieu of flowers, donations may be made to Shriners Children s Hospital, PO Box 2472, Spokane, WA 99210-2472 or to a favorite charity. PAID OBITUARY FLORENCE ELLEN OKERSTROM Florence Ellen Okerstrom, 87, of Grandview died Sunday, Dec. 28, 2003, at Grandview Healthcare, Grandview. She was born Jan. 28, 1916 to Augusta and Edna Okerstrom. She lived all of her life in the Alderwood Valley as part of a family that raised cattle and farmed in the Wapato area, raised crops in the Zillah area and ran a jersy dairy in Alderwood. She enjoyed traveling in her younger years and in later years was very busy volunteering for numerous organizations for which she received many certificates of thanks. She was very active in the Pomona and SunnyValley Granges, serving as secretary/treasurer for close to 30 years for them. She was also involved in the Golden Agers and Alderwood Senior Citizens group. She belonged to numerous card clubs and loved to play pinochle. She is survived by two nieces, Wanda Clark and husband, Gary, of Tacoma and Donna Feldman of Bothel. She will be greatly missed by her many, many friends. She was preceded in death by her father, Agusta Okerstrom; her mother Edna; step-father Gus Delmonico; and two brothers, Clinton and Edwin Okerstrom. At Mrs. Okerstrom s request no funeral services will be held. Viewing and visitation will be held Tuesday, Dec. 30, 2003, from 1 until 5 p.m. at Jones Funeral Home, Alderwood. Internment will be at Lower Valley Memorial Gardens, Alderwood, under the services of Jones Funeral Home. Gifts in her memory can be made to the American Cancer Society or Alderwood Christian School"}
{"Id":"1101243533593","Title":"Minimum wage may go up, but entry level jobs will be impacted say local businessmen","Author":"Jamie Smart","Time":"12/29/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"Lower Valley restaurant workers will be seeing a slight increase in their pay envelopes as of Jan. 1, the date the state minimum wage will rise to 7.16. But the increase, designed to help create living wages for entry level workers, may be more of a problem than a help to restaurant workers, according to Washington Restaurant Association (WRA) President Gene Vosberg. Vosberg said Washington restaurants are in an economic crisis, as costs rise and profit margins fall. Restaurants are being forced to cut labor costs, he said. He said the WRA will propose reforms to the 2004 legislature to give relief to help restaurateurs cope with the nation's highest minimum wages. He said because waitresses usually receive tips, in addition to a base wage, the association is seeking to have tips included as a part of the worker's minimum wage. \"The federal government and 43 states already count tips towards the calculation of minimum wages,\" he explained. Even the Washington Department of Labor and Industries counts tips as wages when calculating workers compensation benefits, he explained. \"However, Washington restaurants are prohibited from counting tips toward the state minimum wage payments,\" Vosberg said. \"We are proposing the state allow a restaurant owner to pay a tipped employee 50 percent of the state minimum wage as their base wage, so long as the employee makes at least the minimum wage in tips alone,\" said Vosberg. But while that may work well in Seattle and Spokane areas, 14-year veteran waitress Jerrianne Mata of Alderwood isn't sure that would be practical in the Alderwood Valley. \"We have to claim 8 percent when we report our tips on our (federal) income tax reports, but we don't always make 8 percent in tips,\" said Mata, who has worked the past six years at the Sunny Spot Restaurant in Alderwood. \"It really doesn't average out even though most of our clients are good tippers,\" she said. Sunny Spot Restaurant owner Gary Hooks of Alderwood fears the damage of the new wage increase will not be on the existing labor force, but any new hires he may consider. Entry level workers' chances of getting jobs will be limited if they are to be paid the same as experienced workers, he said. \"One good waitress is worth two green waitresses while they are learning the job,\" Hooks said. \"But you have to pay both the same.\" Hooks said the increases won't hurt his popular Alderwood Valley Highway eatery, but he can see where it will hurt fast food restaurants which rely on unskilled labor for its labor forces. \"Kids trying to get a job may have more difficulty getting the minimum wage job with the increases,\"' he said. The restaurants will be forced to pay beginning fast food workers the same wage as some waitresses who have been working for several years, said Dean Stokes, owner of the Alderwood Burger Ranch Restaurant on Alderwood Valley Highway. \"I try to get my minimum wage workers off that spot as quickly as possible,\" he said. \"But I also expect more than minimum work before I pay a bit more. I'm very selective about who I hire,\" Stokes added. He fears if restaurant owners are forced to pay more for inexperienced, beginning workers, consumers will have to get used to paying a bit more for their meals, he said. Jim Thompson, owner of Alderwood's Marie's Country Kitchen, said the possibility of using a waitress's projected tips as part of her income may be a good thing. \"We used to be able to do that,\" he said. \"I hope the WRA will be able to get the legislature to change the minimum wage law,\" he said. \"Many restaurants simply cannot continue to incur additional salary costs and hope to say alive,\" Thompson said. The increase, which raises the minimum wage of 6.90 to 7.16, is part of an automatic minimum wage increase which has occurred each of the past six years. Restaurants will also absorb worker's compensation tax increases of 10 percent this year, in addition to the 26 percent increases last year. \"They are paying more in unemployment insurance tax, in addition to the ever increasing health and business liability insurance premiums,\" said Vosberg. According to Vosberg, the WRA proposals are similar to those proposed in 2003, which received substantial support from legislators, but were not adopted. . Jamie Smart can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or you can e-mail her at jhart@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101243533827","Title":"Recall expands to eight states, Guam","Author":"Melissa Browning","Time":"12/29/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"The recall of 10,000 pounds of beef slaughtered at Vern's Moses Lake Meats the same day the bovine spongiform encephalopathy (BSE) infected cow was slaughtered has been expanded to include eight states and the U.S. territory of Guam, according to Dr. Ken Petersen of the United States Department of Agriculture Food Safety Inspection Service. The recall was sent out Dec. 23, as an \"abundance of precaution,\" despite infected portions of the cow, including the brain and spinal cord, having been removed from the animal at Vern's Meats. \"Because the meat leaving Vern's did not contain these high-risk materials, the recalled beef represents an essentially zero risk to consumers,\" said Petersen. The cow was then sent with 20 other cows to Midway Meats in Centralia, where it was deboned before it was shipped to Willamette Valley Meats in Portland, Ore. and Interstate Meat Distributors in Clackamas, Ore. Petersen said about 25 percent of the meat shipped to Interstate Meats has not been distributed. Beef from the two plants in Oregon were sold primarily to Oregon, Washington, California and Nevada. Petersen said that trimmings from Willamette Valley were sold to three dozen mom and pop Asian and Mexican facilities in Washington, Oregon, California and Nevada. Petersen said it has been learned that some of the consignees had additional distribution to Alaska, Montana, Hawaii, Idaho and Guam. Most of the meat from Interstate Meats was ground up and some made into ground beef patties. All of the ground beef and patties from Interstate Meats was sold within Washington and Oregon. He said already meat is being returned as a part of the recall. Dr. Stephen Sundlof with the Food and Drug Administration Center for Veterinary Medicine said they have also gained control of all of the renderings from Vern's Moses Lake Meats and Midway Meats. 'We are trying to trace down any products, any byproducts from the processing of the BSE indexed cow, to try and keep it from getting into any products the FDA regulates, including animal feed,\" said Petersen. . Melissa Browning can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or e-mail mbrowning@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101243534062","Title":"USDA investigating possibility that infected cow came from Canada","Author":"Melissa Browning","Time":"12/29/2002","Tag":null,"Content":"In a press conference held Saturday morning, Dr. Ron DeHaven, the chief veterinary officer with the U.S. Department of Agriculture, announced that investigators are now looking into leads that the Mabton Holstein infected with mad cow disease came from Canada. With the new information, DeHaven said, the USDA now believes that the infected cow came to the United States as a part of a group of 74 dairy cattle entering the country at Eastport, Idaho. The dairy cows are believed to have come from a herd in Alberta, Canada in August 2001, said DeHaven. \"There is some discrepancy in the records that we have and the records that we obtained from the index herd owner and the Canadian records on the particular animal,\" said DeHaven. \"U.S. records would indicate that the animal was 4 to 4-1/2 years old. The Canadian records indicate that she was born in April of '97, making her a 6-1/2-year-old animal.\" The USDA is implementing DNA testing to determine if the animal is the same one that entered the country in 2001. DeHaven said that if it is the same cow, she had a calf in Canada and semen is still available from the animal believed to be the sire of the infected animal, which could help with the matching. But, DeHaven said, there is a question as to how old the cow was when it was purchased for the 4,000-herd Mabton dairy. \"Initially, we had a verbal report from the herd owner of the indexed farm saying that based on his memory this particular cow came into the U.S. in October 2001, as a 2-year-old springer,\" said DeHaven. But in talking with the manager of the same farm, not the owner, he recalls this cow being a dry cow, which would suggest that she was an older animal and soon to give birth to her next calf, said DeHaven. According to a report released this morning (Monday), the Mabton owner of the Holstein cow found to have BSE has located documents indicating the cow was an older animal, not a 2-year-old springer as initially thought, according to DeHaven. The cow is now believed to be 6-1/2 years old, said DeHaven. \"Information now indicates that the animal was born before the feed bans were implemented in 1997,\" said DeHaven. \"Only DNA tests will confirm that the cow is from a farm in Alberta, Canada. The USDA was turned onto the possibility that the cow originated in Canada when a small metal tamper-proof tag was recovered from the slaughter house in Moses Lake. DeHaven said the tag is similar to ones used in Canada. He pointed out that just because the one animal has tested positive for mad cow disease, doesn't mean the other animals that entered the United States with the infected animal had the same disease. After crossing the border, the animal was taken to a dairy cow finishing facility in Mattawa, which is where it was purchased for the Mabton dairy. DeHaven said the quarantine on the Mabton dairy and a Alderwood area bull calf feeding operation continues. The bull calf operation was quarantined late last week after it was determined that the infected cow's most recent calf went into feed pens with about 400 other calves. Although, according to DeHaven, there is no research that indicates that BSE can be transmitted from cow to calf, the operation was quarantined as a precautionary step. \"The purpose of that quarantine or hold order is not to stop the spread of the disease,\" he said. \"It's important to realize that BSE is not a contagious disease. It's not spread by direct contact, animal to animal.\" He said the quarantine is to help prevent the movement of animals, making it easier in the investigation. . Melissa Browning can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or e-mail mbrowning@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101243534343","Title":"A chronological look at mad cow disease","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"12/26/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"1-Column 1985 Bovine Spongiform Encephalophathy (BSE), also known as mad cow disease, is first observed in the United Kingdom ( Great Britain ). The first related case of BSE occurred in February 1985. \"Cow 133\" died after suffering head tremors. November 1986 The first confirmed case of BSE is identified in the United Kingdom . July 1998 Government officials ban the inclusion of meat and bone from ruminant (grazing) animals into cattle feed. Ruminant animals are believed to carry the prions that cause BSE. July 1989 The United States Department of Agriculture bans the importation of ruminant animals from countries with confirmed BSE cases. May 1990 United Kingdom scientist Professor Richard Lacey calls for the slaughter of all BSE infected herds in the United Kingdom . During the same period, the British agricultural minister declares that all beef products are completely safe to eat, even appearing on television in a commercial with his 4-year-old daughter eating a hamburger. June 1990 Out of 10 million cattle in Great Britain , more than 14,000 are confirmed to have BSE. December 1991 United States Department of Agriculture bans at-risk by products of ruminant origin from countries with BSE. 1993 The United States Mad Cow Disease Surveillance Program expands to include examination of brain tissue from downed cows. January 1993 The BSE epidemic reaches epic proportions in the United Kingdom . Mad cow disease at its peak during this period reached 1,000 new cases each week. United Kingdom officials brought that figure down to about 300 reported BSE cases by 1996. 1986-1996 More than 155,000 cases of BSE are identified in the United Kingdom . The disease in the United Kingdom peaks between 1992-93 with a reported 100,000 confirmed cases. May 21, 1995 Stephen Churchill, 19, is the first known human death from BSE. Three more United Kingdom residents die that year from the disease. March 20, 1996 British government officials confirm the suspicion of many scientists, announcing a link between BSE and the Cruetzfeldt-Jacob disease, which is a human form of BSE. Aug. 4, 1997 The United States Food and Drug Administration establishes regulations prohibiting the feeding of most mammalian proteins to ruminants. February 2000 A mother carrying the Cruetzfeldt-Jakob disease gives birth to a daughter in the United Kingdom , who also tests positive for the disease. July 2000 United States officials declare an emergency situation after four sheep in Vermont tested positive for BSE related symptoms. The cause of the outbreak was eventually traced back to feed purchased from Belgium . Nov. 23, 2000 The first case of BSE is confirmed in Spain . Nov. 24, 2000 The first reported case of BSE is confirmed in Germany after the birth of two calves. 1993 BSE invades Canada . The first reported case of mad cow disease in Canada occurred in Red Deer , Alberta . The cow was imported from Great Britain in 1987. December 2002 United States government officials test tissue from a Mabton Holstein dairy cow and an Alderwood cow in Iowa after the downed animals are identified with potentially having BSE at a rendering plant. The tissue is tested for mad cow disease. The results of the tissue test sampling in Iowa prompts the samples to be sent to the United Kingdom for BSE confirmation. Dec. 25, 2002 A British laboratory confirms that the Mabton Holstein suspected of contracting BSE is infected with the deadly disease. Oct. 29, 2003 A 21-month-old bull is killed in Japan after testing positive for BSE. It is the ninth cow killed in Japan since the illness was discovered in 2001"}
{"Id":"1101243555624","Title":"Untitled","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"12/26/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"PAID OBITUARY DEATH NOTICE HERMAN OSCAR TURLEY Herman Oscar Turley, 95, of Grandview died Wednesday, Dec. 24, 2003, in Prosser. He was born Dec. 20, 1908 in Prosser to Joseph and Myrtle (VanHoy) Turley. He received his education in Grandview. On July 13, 1942 he enlisted in the U.S. Navy and served until Nov. 20, 1945. On Nov. 16, 1945 he married Verna Hill in Prosser. Together they made their home in Grandview, where they owned and operated a service station and worked for R.E. Powell. Starting in November of 1953 they owned and operated Turley s Clothing and Sporting Goods in Grandview until their retirement in 1974. He is survived by one sister, Ethel Stamper of Tacoma; and numerous nieces and nephews. He was preceded in death by his wife, Verna E. Turley, March 1992; three sisters; and two brothers. At Mr. Turley s request there will be no formal funeral services. Jones Funeral Home is in charge of arrangements. PAID OBITUARY ORVILLE LEE LUTHER Orville Lee Luther, 74, of Zillah passed away Sunday, Dec. 21, 2003, at home surrounded by his family following an extended illness. Orville was born Aug. 31, 1929 in Eldorado Springs, Mont., the son of Edward Levi and Zella Vergi (Simmons) Luther. The Luther family moved to the Alderwood area in 1935. On Oct. 27, 1947 he married Loretta Jean Worms in Grandview. Following their marriage they made their home in Granger, where they farmed and Orville was a crane operator for various Hanford projects. In 1971 Orville founded O.L. Luther Company, an asphalt and gravel company that continues under the name O.L. Luther and operated by his son, Arnold Joe , and grandsons, Lee and Joseph Luther. Orville and Loretta resided for 52 years in Granger and for the past two years had made their home in Zillah. Orville was a member of the Operating Engineers for more than 20 years and a member of the Liberty Methodist Church in Granger. Orville was very devoted to his business, cherished time spent with family and had a passion for fishing. Orville is survived by his loving wife of 56 years, Loretta of Zillah; three children, Arnold Joe Luther and wife, Susie, of Outlook, Jeaneva Hallett and husband, Ray, of Grandview and Diane Jones of Zillah; seven grandchildren, Shannon Luther, Lee Luther (Jeanelle), Joseph Luther (Kendra). WES Hallett (Cristie), Matthew Hallett (Asayo), Hillary Nesary (Chris) and Mallory Jones; four great-grandchildren; Joleen Buckingham, Raelynn Nesary, Owen Luther and Tomi Luther; one brother, Leo Luther of Bickleton; and Vera Barbour of Kansas City, Mo. He was preceded in death by his parents; two brothers, Claude Luther and Norman Luther; one sister, Nancy Gates; several other brothers and sisters; and nieces and nephews. Viewing and visitation will be held Friday, Dec. 26, 2003, from 3 to 8 p.m. at Jones Funeral Home, Alderwood. Funeral services will be held Saturday, Dec. 27, 2003, at 10 a.m. at Jones Funeral Home, Alderwood. Burial will follow at Lower Valley Memorial Gardens, Alderwood. Those wishing to honor Orville s memory may contribute to the cancer memorial of the donor s choice. Memorials may be left at Jones Funeral Home at the time of service"}
{"Id":"1101243556046","Title":"Untitled","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"12/26/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"1-Column Vocalist to appear at Jazz Alley SEATTLE - Dimitriou's Jazz Alley in Seattle will present up and coming vocalist Sara Gazarek for a one-night only performance on Monday, Jan. 5. Ben Ratliff of the New York Times describes a recent performance by Gazarek as, \"Professional isn't the word; her performance was sublime.\" Gazarek is one of the most talked about young vocalists emerging from today's jazz scene. Currently a senior at the University of Southern Cal, Gazarek has already found her own unique style, with an inviting stage presence and a powerful sense of swing. She has won numerous awards, including the Ella Fitzgerald Outstanding Vocalist Award. The band members who will be accompanying Gazarek at Dimitriou's Jazz Alley include Drew Pierson of keyboard, Erik Kertes on bass and Phil Parisot on drums. Tickets for the Jan. 5 performance are available by calling (206) 441-9729. Wild West show in Yakima Jan. 9 YAKIMA - The Yakima Folklife Concert Series will feature \"Wylie and the Wild West\" in concert Friday, Jan. 9, in the Great Hall of the Alderwood Valley Museum. Featuring cowboy yodeling, honky tonk and fine western music, the band is said to have the best singing cowboy alive today. The Jan. 9, 7:30 p.m. performance is open to the public. Tickets, priced at 16 for adults and 6 for children, will be available at the door that evening. Dixie Melody Boys in concert Saturday, Jan. 10 YAKIMA - One of Gospel music's most popular artists, The Dixie Melody Boys, will be featured in concert on Saturday, Jan. 10, at Yakima's Stone Church. The band has enjoyed much success, including a Grammy nomination. Hit releases have flowed their way in bunches, including recent releases \"I'll be Living that Way\" and \"I Won't Compromise.\" The group's energy and excitement, coupled with their exceptional vocal blend, is appealing to audiences of all ages. The Saturday, Jan. 10, concert will begin at p.m"}
{"Id":"1101243556468","Title":"Guest Editorial","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"12/26/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"As we enter a New Year, it is clear that the national economy is on a rebound. For November 2003, the Consumer Price Index was down 0.2 percent, the unemployment rate was down to 5.9 percent, productivity was up an astounding 9.4 percent (from the same quarter of 2002); with all being positive indicators of a strengthening economy. A growing, strengthening economy is one that will produce the jobs that will produce the next round of growth in the economy. This positive-feedback cycle is encouraging, and coupled with the good news from the international arena, it should gather strength this next quarter. Locally, the Boeing Company's announcement to produce the next-generation 7E7 in Everett will keep this state from being decimated by the loss of a substantial portion of its aerospace industry. This event has direct impacts upon Eastern Washington, as the difficulty of improving the local economy increases in direct proportion to any increases in the weakness of the economy in the Puget Sound region. Even closer to home, the effects of the hirings at the Wal-Mart distribution center will soon be felt. This will help offset anticipated losses we will experience in some of the agriculture sectors. The long-term net will be a more diversified local economy, one goal that Alderwood Incorporated has been working on for almost two decades, and has had considerable success with. At this time, Alderwood Incorporated is actively pursuing new opportunities to continue improving the local economy, and to attract new employers into the Lower Valley. Additionally, we are working on ways to help local employers remain competitive in this tough business climate. We accomplish this through offering business counseling, consulting and through bringing educational resources to where the need is. We are not a political party ready to assert agenda into every issue that businesses encounter. We recognize that there is a proper venue and level of regulation that assists businesses to thrive, while protecting the health and safety of employees, customers and society in general. We take stands against excessive regulation, not against every regulation solely by virtue of its existence. Alderwood Incorporated has led efforts to renew the downtown district in Alderwood for many years. The primary beneficiaries have been those businesses that are located within the downtown core. Tens of thousands of dollars have been spent on this effort. The Foundation for the Community of Alderwood was formed solely for the purpose of making community improvements. The Centennial Park Square in the core of downtown was accomplished through the efforts and gifts of the Seeger family, Mr. Dave Fonfara, Alderwood Incorporated, the Chamber of Commerce, the City of Alderwood, the Port of Alderwood, the downtown merchants, Uptown Alderwood Association, and many, many others; as well as all of the private donors that have their community patronage commemorated within the stonework in the park. You can still be a contributor to this ongoing project, as redefining the Alderwood downtown core is a continuing need. This project has cut across all racial and cultural lines, and is recognized as providing a unifying, central, positive focal point for community gatherings, and is an icon demonstrating what this community can accomplish when all work together. This is the result of what happens when inclusiveness is the main focus of all the diverse groups that have a presence in this city. The community center is ready to open, one other positive project for this community, one that has been accomplished in like manner through the inclusion of all parties. There is substantial recognition that this community is interested in continuing to foster an atmosphere of inclusiveness and acceptance. It is up to each one of us to support the organizations that represent this community, and to bring our strengths and talents to these groups to help them serve the interests of all the residents. Just as the Centennial Park Square project and community center have been realized through the combined efforts of all, future projects also will have success through combining the talents of all parties. Get involved, meet your fellow community members, add to the whole, and be a part of the positive. The national economy is strengthening, the state has retained a major economic generator in Boeing, the Valley has a new employer ready to kick out paychecks to be spent locally, and the community has accomplished some substantial positive projects. This next year could be very good for the Lower Alderwood Valley, this community invites you to be a part of it. Marshall Doak is Executive Director of Alderwood Incorporated, an economic development organization dedicated to promoting economic growth in the Lower Alderwood Valley"}
{"Id":"1101243556874","Title":"Hart Beat","Author":"Jamie Smart","Time":"12/26/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"It was hard to be happy this Christmas. I am still upset about the desecration caused early this past Sunday morning when a pack of teenage hoodlums, who should have been in bed, were out scribbling like 4-year-olds on the walls of the Alderwood VFW post. Talking with the post commander of the local veterans stronghold, I could hear the disbelief in his voice at the disrespect those unseen, nameless little hoods were showing not only to the veterans who frequent the post, but soldiers everywhere. He had just learned that the American solider had been named as the Time magazine \"Person of the Year.\" I was excited to see that the nation has been so committed to supporting the men and women in our military who have gone where asked, to defend our national ideal of freedom from tyranny. Our young men and women who have left their homes and families and have committed themselves to going into the line of fire based on their sense of duty deserved our respect. Respect, which apparently a small group of Alderwood juveniles haven't learned yet. All they could think to do with their spare time was to spray-paint yet another public building with their mindless tagging of their so-called \"turf.\" Well, kiddies, the VFW Post is not on your turf. I'm not entirely sure the youths involved in this situation deserve to have the roof over their head that their parents provide for them. I'm not sure they deserve the warm clothes those same hard-working parents put on their back. I'm damn sure they don't deserve anyone's respect after dirtying up other people's property with their so-called posting of boundaries. What a waste. It's not as if their dripping illegible letters are all that interesting. It's tragic and its makes me incredibly sad to find that is all the respect those young people have for their community, their grandfathers and other relatives who may have served in the military. I think if we catch the cowardly little creeps, they should be made to paint the post a new flag-bearing American eagle mural on the front of the building. That's a project for which I'd gladly purchase paint so these would-be painters could be involved in something more constructive and attractive. I hope the parents of the thoughtless punks find out their children were involved in the trashing of their neighborhoods, and take back their Christmas presents. I hope they take back the Playstations2 and CD's and hand them the lumps of coal the little delinquents so richly deserve. Bah humbug, you little creeps"}
{"Id":"1101243577468","Title":"Untitled","Author":"Webmaster","Time":"12/24/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"DEATH NOTICE LETA MARIE BLOOMFIELD Leta Marie Bloomfield, 84, of Alderwood died Sunday, Dec. 21, 2003, at Hillcrest Manor. She was born Aug. 16, 1919 at Elsie, Neb., the daughter of Mary Ellen (Rowley) and Gilbert Fosbinder. She received her education in Nebraska and moved to the Alderwood Valley in 1946. On Sept. 10, 1952 she married Chris Bloomfield in Sterling, Colo. They returned to Alderwood to make their home. She was employed at Hillcrest Manor in Alderwood for more than 20 years. Mrs. Bloomfield is survived by three children, Charles Kennedy of Alderwood, Elston Kennedy of Tacoma and Doris Kennedy of Edmonds; seven grandchildren; seven great-grandchildren; one great-great-grandson; one brother, LeRoy Fosbinder of North Plate, Neb.; and one sister, June Stock of Fleming, Calif. She was preceded in death by her parents; husband, Chris Bloomfield; one brother, Leycester Fosbinder; and two half sisters. Viewing and visitation will be held Tuesday, Dec. 23, 2003, from 1 to 6 p.m. at Jones Funeral Home, Alderwood. Graveside services will be held Wednesday, Dec. 24, 2003, at 10:30 a.m. at Alderwood Memorial Park. Jones Funeral Home is in charge of arrangements. PAID OBITUARY W/PHOTO ORVILLE LEE LUTHER Orville Lee Luther, 74, of Zillah passed away Sunday, Dec. 21, 2003, at home surrounded by his family following an extended illness. Orville was born Aug. 31, 1929 in Eldorado Springs, Mont., the son of Edward Levi and Zella Vergi (Simmons) Luther. The Luther family moved to the Alderwood area in 1935. On Oct. 27, 1947 he married Loretta Jean Worms in Grandview. Following their marriage they made their home in Granger, where they farmed and Orville was a crane operator for various Hanford projects. In 1971 Orville founded O.L. Luther Company, an asphalt and gravel company that continues under the name O.L. Luther and operated by his son, Arnold \"Joe\", and grandsons, Lee and Joseph Luther. Orville and Loretta resided for 52 years in Granger and for the past two years had made their home in Zillah. Orville was a member of the Operating Engineers for more than 20 years and a member of the Liberty Methodist Church in Granger. Orville was very devoted to his business, cherished time spent with family and had a passion for fishing. Orville is survived by his loving wife of 56 years, Loretta of Zillah; three children, Arnold \"Joe\" Luther and wife, Susie, of Outlook, Jeaneva Hallett and husband, Ray, of Grandview and Diane Jones of Zillah; seven grandchildren, Shannon Luther, Lee Luther (Jeanelle), Joseph Luther (Kendra). Wes Hallett (Cristie), Matthew Hallett (Asayo), Hillary Nesary (Chris) and Mallory Jones; four great-grandchildren; Joleen Buckingham, Raelynn Nesary, Owen Luther and Tomi Luther; one brother, Leo Luther of Bickleton; and Vera Barbour of Kansas City, Mo. He was preceded in death by his parents; two brothers, Claude Luther and Norman Luther; one sister, Nancy Gates; several other brothers and sisters; and nieces and nephews. Viewing and visitation will be held Friday, Dec. 26, 2003, from 3 to 8 p.m. at Jones Funeral Home, Alderwood. Funeral services will be held Saturday, Dec. 27, 2003, at 10 a.m. at Jones Funeral Home, Alderwood. Burial will follow at Lower Valley Memorial Gardens, Alderwood. Those wishing to honor Orville's memory may contribute to the cancer memorial of the donor's choice. Memorials may be left at Jones Funeral Home at the time of service"}
{"Id":"1101243577859","Title":"Beyond The Norm-Mel","Author":"Melissa Browning","Time":"12/24/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"I've thought long and hard about who the Alderwood City Council represents. This has been an issue that has bothered me since the first day I covered city council business nearly six years ago, until today. The council is supposed to represent all people of the community; white, Hispanic, Filipino, Asian, African American, everyone, but as I look at the council I think to myself, is this a true representation of our community? Is this a group of people that represents every ethnic, socio-economic and moral background of the community? Most intriguing, I think, is looking at whether or not the council is a group that represents every neighborhood of Alderwood. Thinking about this I went through the list of council members and looked at where they live. Every single one of the city council members lives on Harrison Hill. Even the two incoming city council members have homes on Harrison Hill. Now that's full representation of the community! What about the Hispanic couple living on North Avenue. The newlyweds starting life in their first home on Irving Street and the working poor living on Ida Belle? How are they being served by their \"representatives\" who don't even live in their neighborhood? When I was first learning about city government I thought that city council members were selected much like the school board. I thought that the council members each had a district they represented, although all members of the community voted on who would be seated on the board. Boy, was I wrong! Districting would be a fair way for the entire community to be represented rather than having all of the council members living in one specific area. Within a few short years the citizens of Alderwood could develop a whole new way of choosing its city council. Those representing members of the community could actually be your next door neighbor or the guy living down the street. Personally, as someone who will soon be living at the bottom of the hill, I'd like to be represented by someone who lives near me. At least they'd be familiar with what the rest of us are going through in trying to make our way through life. . Melissa Browning can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or e-mail mbrowning@hawkpress.com"}
{"Id":"1101631275108","Title":"Torch announces run for Alderwood mayor","Author":"John Panni","Time":"7/12/2003","Tag":null,"Content":"John Torch of Alderwood is running for mayor of that community in next year's elections. The current Alderwood city councilman has been working for quite some time on ideas he has for the community. \"I'm announcing my intention to be a candidate for the November 2004 Election for mayor,\" he said. Torch is retired from the U.S. Army, having served in Iraq. He received many awards during that time. They include the Meritorious Service Medal, The Army Commendation (five awards), and The Good Conduct medal (seven awards). Torch works on his farm and has been active in local politics for many years. Torch serves as an officer of Yakima County V.F.W. Post 23. He is a member of Alderwood Elks Lodge, and a member of the Alderwood Police Commission."}
